Adrian\'s Handkerchief
======================

**Source memory: **Several years of combat experience, related memories of several combat-oriented personalities, Fall of the platoon during the chaos of the rift.

**Original Trauma:** Operations gone bad from the horrors of the rift\'s initial effects

**Descriptor:** Crinkles like metalized film but remains a soft cloth-like texture even if it will no longer absorb fluid, is as resistant to tearing as sheet metal, and is not combustible or chemically active.

**Manifest (Su) **-- Able to manifest the spirits of those directly related to the original memory. The spirit constructs will appear instead on the ethereal plane if not visible though if the spirit does not take knowing and active effort in manifesting a visible form they will remain viewed only in strongly reflective surfaces. This ability is a DC 5 will check which doubles every hour remaining manifested. The manifestation may not leave a range of 100m from the the handkerchief and though it does not need to be in Adrian\'s possession for them to manifest instinct is likely to lead the spirit constructs to manifest and carry it back to him. Only one manifestation plus one per 5 class levels of its carrier may be active at any one time and all operate independently. The spirit constructs may discard the manifestation at any time as a free action.

-   **Senses and communication:** The spirit constructs must physically speak to be heard and at their current location if not manifested. They see with Darkvision 30 and otherwise have nonmagical mundane senses and communication methods normal for their original race and body.
-   **Statistics: **Have no strength score without a DC check of twice the desired strength score up to the wearer\'s ability score and manipulate normally for that strength score. (1 point is DC 2, having a strength of 5 is DC of 10) The check must be made once a turn or the construct will lose its manifestation and disincorporate. If injured while manifested the spirit construct must pass a concentration a DC equal to that of half the damage. If not passing by at least 5 they lose a point of strength. Should their resulting loss of strength by damage be insufficient to carry or operate their immediate possessions they instead lose their manifestation and thereafter must attempt to re-manifest at their normal DC or a DC equal to the damage that demanifested them, whichever is higher, until they succeed once.
-   **Experience:** Each anchor emblem represents the memories gained by the manifestation and the manifestation can gain experience and skills like a normal NPC. When first manifested they are at level 1 unless absorbing a spirit of the soldiers. Restoration and healing spells that operate with positive energy work normally on the manifestations despite their undead type and the negative levels can be restored in this way.
-   **Inventory:** The manifestations have their own personal storage equal to 1.5 lbs per class level but must be able to physically carry the load before storing or transferring it and may not store magical items. If attempting to store an object larger than their capacity the largest item in their possession simply falls to the ground unsupported until dropping below their maximum weight. In order to give corporeal objects to the wearer from their the spirit construct\'s inventory they must be first be manifested. The spirit constructs may manifest or wield either a weapon or armor and any clothing without an AC bonus without counting toward their storage limit and it has the non-magical properties appropriate to the object. While in a manifestation\'s hidden possession the objects are detectable by divination or related special abilities but locate at the handkerchief.

**Integrate Anchor (Su) --** The handkerchief will automatically integrate any non-magical anchor directly representative one of the 36 soldiers once under Adrian\'s command upon touching it. An integrated anchor object appears as a design, embroidered or otherwise, on either side of the surface and is directly representative of the spirit in question. If the object actively contains the spirit of or was once part of a that deceased soldier the spirit is affixed to the handkerchief and retains all memories and sum of experience. Otherwise the spirit construct will be a carefully interpreted memory of the person in question and will be an excellent representative of the plated cardinal that once was or is now known to Adrian. Such manufactured constructs will possess all memories while they were in Adrian\'s platoon but not before or after it.
