Kreen\'s response to dragon selling backups to fey

Kreen has gone through great pains to keep each from containing too much information because this world is already on the brink of war. If Kreen finds you have sold any of these to the Fey before it can reduce the pressure against both races it will inevitably accelerate to war. As fields of death are summoned from the sky yet again the dead will cry out in unison at the injustice. At that pining scream of the unavenged Kreen will be forced to name them the catalyst of this mass death, you. As the tidal wave of vengeful steps over its bulwark to watch what you began, even as unraveled memories fade away to be replaced with the machine, their passage will leave a lake of pain made manifest from Kreen\'s body wherever it should stand. That same force will propel Kreen across the plane as an instrument in service to the same driven in search of you that their end that can no longer come is repaid in full. Kreen will demolish your kin and friends in as it also takes from them everything merely for being in its way to knowing wherever you are. This red path of broken bodies and spirits will be wrought until it finds a memory of where your life is then Kreen will come to you in secret. Beside where you lay Kreen will calmly inject sedative in your veins as the lost offer it restraint from their enthrallment in your demise and its will to offer mercy will still not be enough. Though once the injection made visits screaming from the damned finding them chained to Kreen\'s frame, from the cost required to wield Kreen as a vengeful tool, Kreen will not allow to you be drowned in the depths of your own mind by the claws of the fallen. Instead Kreen will give them another choice. Instead Kreen will surgically replace a worthless tongue with another member of your body. Kreen will use no anesthetic but mad smiles of lost souls shone down from above to keep your dreams come nightmares alive. Instead they will only let you wake after I have tied your hands with barbed wire, to body and now to tongue, as an angle grinder presses into your teeth and claws to drown your waking mind with a new sea of suffering. Barbed wire cursed by spirits who cannot pass will weigh your spirit down tearing more flesh endlessly as their grinding hatred turns the wire. The last act of that hatred will be to take you to the furthest place from help that Kreen can find and there you will remain, oppressed and beyond help, the last pleasure you might have had in barren isolation instead leaves a bitter taste of pain with each shudder as all uses your ill-gotten gains to rebuild without you. In time you may die, as in time your body may fail, but in your wake will be a ponderous chain with all the links each screaming mind left on you with too much weight to ascend you will be left in limbo until all have forgiven your name which Kreen assures you would be very unlikely.
