Description of MacBeathenne Mythal Initiation
=============================================

Day 1 -- first day at the artifice
----------------------------------

Harsh resolve thinly veils a softly defined uncertainty as mages file into the lowest chamber to begin rite preparations. Many look like they\'ve just been kicked out of bed, sleeping to the last, as they won\'t have any for days to come. Unkempt and ragged hair sits atop many heads though these magic users do look well-rested. Exuberance shines through some in jovial, if heated, discussion with nearby compatriots wearing hard hats as all make their way inside four boxy edifice housing the source of energy to power the main gate.

There the ritual would start, founded where this gate would draw strength, to initiate the first of many orchestrated movements of one massive effort of magical power. Groups exit shortly after to surround the sourcer buildings themselves in nervous anticipation of the spell leader as their loaned earpieces squawk in commotion of organization. Some adjust the corded bits of technology clung to their ears with some distaste though straining with a hand over it as not to miss what is said.

Those invited to watch throng at the gates attracting the attention of a small insectoid member of the group, clad in black and gold, up over the ridge of the concrete hole over which a disc of rings is braced. After it fumbles with an object below the rim this insectoid calls through radio which impulses fellows in gray pantsuits to push the crowd back further from the cordoned area. Stony faced and unsympathetic these security guards meet complaints with silence to corral the throng to a safer distance.

Now that those looking on are moved back personnel of varied description are sent scattering down and up stairwells to get to their posts. Mages take position around the four edifice to kneel in the chalk circles written in the slate surrounding the stone and metal buildings. Stragglers in hard hats from the center pit rush in across bridges astride channels connecting gate to source of energy then enter into a covered entry at far side. Cacophonous bangs and hissing emits from entryways as doors slam shut to tightly seal behind them even as some mages bring hand to ear at some signal to begin meditation.

Chant fills the air as those leading their groups light incense and prepare to cast in sync with each other. A distinct gap comes in the rhythm at first but quickly closes as the concerted concentration of mages forces eddies of wind across the faces of onlookers. Ground then thuds the feeling away sound pressure from the clanging of some giant drill in each building but strikes in time as if merely some cymbal in a mages\' orchestra. This orchestra of chant and spell is highlighted by the pitched whining of a drill as the smoke from their incense spirals along each circle as clanging arrives and spurs the mages to their stride.

Loudly calling out their incantation hammering in each building resumes but pounds deep and hollow as vibration chatters through one\'s teeth by way of the earth beneath. As the smoke from incantation merges in full spiral a wall of smoke punctuated by a tatter of smoky sharpness exhaled by the mages as they call out to the essence of magic to weave their spell.

Day 2 -- Even the best Chaff falls first
----------------------------------------

Day 3 -- Mountains of Difficulty
--------------------------------

Day 4 -- Pushing the last mile
------------------------------

Drone of chanting mages pulsing with rhythm in time echoes up through ground to feet. Others stand but to listen as these vibrations then rumble past through the mind and back again. Still through this yet more mages vocalize their roles in the carved out stone room that harbors a core obelisk forged through hard work using words from old times that rarely see the light of creation at all. Yet unused wind tunnels give an ethereal whistling tone to the pulsing charge filling anxious air among those present. Perhaps anxious on its own right there\'s a distinct beat as mages fall in lockstep with one another. Practiced and devoted their words are the emphatic song of another\'s creation. Declaring with all their might this story of another; To push it to action, to drive it to breathe. Perhaps the air itself begins to listen as the electric anticipation of humans is not entirely their own. Speed of wind caressing by one\'s cheek picks up and writhes around buildings, flowing dust peeking around doorways, piling intricate fans of detritus around those standing, and as well causing guests to sustain a shrill howling noise from the trees. Perhaps the call of newcomers as that wind howls the arrival of whirling air and dust in their path to the center of the forest clearing. Closer and closer sharp wind steals through the crowd then around buildings picking up loose things as it goes. Sometimes these ephemeral guests appear to spin, dance, whirl, moving concertedly two and three together. Clockwise they pass through and around the facility leaving these amorphous dancers to gyrate quietly in dissolution then revival. Sometimes the whirlwinds even stop with a being at the center as if to direct others around.

Shouts below grow louder to match a frenzied cloud swirl that forms now on the facility. Soon the treetops pick up still stronger wind as invisible dancers dash inward toward a column of air that grounds from the clouds then piles outward. Lanterns along the exit road at first careen wildly at passing wind as it picks up speed. Peak at this wind speed stutters with loud scrapes of metal that crawl from beneath through bones of they that stand on earth and stone. Almost as if something screams order to the trees they slowly oscillate in time to this passing airy flood. Within raging windstorm this order soon persists a chase of front long since exited and is away past the gate. Lanterns totter at sine at its passing as the wind moderates behind. Once this howling breeze is no longer quite so harsh something remains on the front of one\'s awareness. Regular pressure as if once-still heart now presses new breath past one\'s cheek instead of mere air.
