parts and tools of the conjugate gate mythal
============================================

Construction Tools
------------------

### Entropy Demiurge

-   What

    -   A raw magic and energy generator for enermechanic artifice.
    -   Composed of a crucible that produces and maintains the three fields composing different stages of energy gathering.
    -   It is a bowl shaped set of emitters below a translucent pulsating sphere that leaks large quantities of waste heat, produced in the generating process, as a rippling heat field spiraling upward.
    -   Colored whirls of thermal motes line the smokestack where heat leaves the room to be put to productive use as the motes are conducted elsewhere.

-   Where

    -   The demiurge is located in a separate building in case of excess draw from the other artifice connected to it that a blowout does not damage them too severely
    -   The demiurge itself is slightly underground to further protect those around the area in case of a blowout or heat wall damage.

-   Why

    -   The demiurge is required as it is bulky for multiple necromantic artifice to intake ashen directly and dispose of the consumed material.
    -   With a central power artifice to process ashen only refined glyphs and/or raw mana needs to transit to a given artifice that requires it to operate.
    -   The demiurge can safely handle extreme arcane pressures and/or surges of high energy use by absorbing it in aggregate.
    -   Though this does increase the toxicity of materials from an increase total reactant density and a high rate of ashen slag production it reduces the amount of light gases that are produced making less volume required to store recovered material.

-   How

    -   The demiurge has a local portal at its core to inject ashen directly inside three spherical fields
    -   Ashen in the first field builds up as reactant until a desired density is reached
    -   Once the proper density is reached field-shaped time stop spells begin initiating in turn with their cycle time relative to the design load.
    -   The initial consumption is high but a net gain is acquired easily after the staging time as generated raw magic is recycled into generating a flash rate.
    -   Each time stop field is imaged from the emitters on the central ashen void in turn which obliterates nearly all matter on the border of the field generating energy, heavy radiation, and raw mana.
    -   The total volume of the sphere is much higher than its apparent external volume and at its center intentionally causes Celebrindal\'s limit to be passed at the center of the void.
    -   Celebrindal\'s limit causes matter to decompose into elemental symmetry and raw mana much more easily and the detonation from the time stop field aggravates the border condition considerably.
    -   The center field, the first stage, retains quasi-matter ashen to release only observable energy ensuring maximum fuel efficiency as uncertain states produced are repeatedly broken down and reformed randomly by the decomposition induced by Celebrindal\'s limit as amplified by the high-energy detonation.
    -   The second stage field siphons away positive energy generated by the decomposed matter
    -   The tertiary stage field siphons negative energy from the system as the now unstable matter begins to decompose
    -   The remainder that emerges is pure raw magic and heat that is collected throughout the main chamber
    -   Any remaining heat leaves through the chimney, a column in the ceiling that inhibits radiation passing into the environment.

#### Rules

-   Refer to demiurge worksheet for intake and energy production.
-   If the demiurge runs at peak production for more than 48 hours it accumulates a 1d6-3 (min 0) percent chance per day to explode as long as that load remains and decreases at the same rate once no longer at peak until the chance is again zero. Treat an explosion as an incendiary cloud spell on the ethereal plane except the effect range is a quarter mile centered on the core. If an active demiurge is instead disrupted by antimagic then receives terminal damage the incendiary cloud will instead occur on the prime material plane regardless if it was running at peak. After the explosion the area will periodically rain unholy water for 1d4+2 months and the area will attract ghosts as per the rules for the sympathy spell.

#### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Field 1 -- Resilient Sphere
    -   Field 2 & 3 -- Protection from energy
    -   Chimney -- Burning hands
    -   Chamber -- Protection from energy
    -   Siphons -- dimension door
    -   Demiurge to ashen processor link -- dimension door
    -   Emitters -- Time stop (four slots)

-   Breakdown

    -   Burning hands (8 Units) (Command 1800 x 1 x 1) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 7200
    -   Protection from energy (Raw magic) (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 3375
    -   Protection from energy (negative) (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 3375
    -   Protection from energy Positive) (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 3375
    -   Dimension Door (2 Units) (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 40500
    -   Time Stop (instant duration) (4 Units) (Command 1800 x 7 x 13) = 655200
    -   Resilient Sphere (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 6300

-   Duration:

    -   719 Days to produce
    -   5752 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost (sans labor)

    -   USD - $71,932,500
    -   AURII - $215,797,500

### Elemental Separator

-   What

    -   The interior of this much larger equipment is a chamber with tools and containers lining the inner surface.
    -   Various equipment lines the bottom to ensure that the center chamber\'s environment is hospitable to the elementals\' continued health
    -   The canister wall is populated with hexagonal canisters that the plasma elementals can open to compact material into.
    -   The outer casing allows for sealing of the inner door by either side so canisters can be removed and an empty one reinserted or if full.
    -   A deflagration chamber below allows the elemental to process ashen slag created within the ashworks and demiurge.
    -   The deflagration chamber has a small conduit to handle the steady stream of ashen slag and is not intended for large volumes.

-   Where

    -   Near the entropy demiurge and ashen works as they will be the primary producers of decomposing material or ashen slag.
    -   The main column is below ground for insulation and to help inhibit any airborne leaks of material or glyph.

-   Why

    -   This large sustaining chamber enables the elemental to employ stabilization artifice within the chamber onto the decomposing material and sort the result into stable materials for reuse.
    -   The entropy demiurge produces extremely varied output of material in magnitude and type as such it needs an artifice that can handle anything that arrives.
    -   The separator also enables the recovery of materials from refuse used to produce ashen and any slag.
    -   Most heavy materials turn into slag or remain slag if the ashen processor is not of sufficient size to process it in the volume received in short spans.
    -   The impurities in raw materials too dense to process may turn to ashen but all excessively heavy material will turn into slag.
    -   The deflagration chambers insulate the hot plasma elemental from the endothermic explosion of ashen slag.

-   How

    -   Spent ashen enters from various artifice in the collection chamber to degrade into normal stable matter and evacuate from the chamber by air pressure.
    -   The main chamber is filled with a 30\' tall hybrid air/lightning \[plasma\] elemental that directs hot gaseous material to their respective containers.
    -   Slag pours down through the center through a controllable diaphragm in the bottom leading to the deflagration chambers.
    -   The elemental will control which of the ashen slag deflagration chambers is used or closed for deflagration at any one time.
    -   The chambers will not begin deflagration unless the elemental closes the chamber which disengages retaining walls of force to begin the reaction.
    -   Slag will remain stable until the chamber engages so that large volumes can be preserved and moved elsewhere for detonation if required.

#### Rules

-   All 6 elementals are needed to process all of the peak output from an entropy demiurge
-   Spent ashen has an equal chance to turn into 1d4 lbs per elemental of any element in the output range of its consumer per round
-   Each storage cube is a 2.5\' cube with one face exposed to the inside of the separator chamber the total capacity depends on the density of the matter being concreted into the cube.
-   Some cells are pressurized containers as the materials may be a gas at room temperature. Opening such a container improperly will result in a 6d6 explosion of ceramic shards with a range of 30 feet
-   If a storage cube is opened from outside without first closing off the inside chamber anyone behind the door must save versus reflex DC 17 or receive 6d6 fire damage and fort save versus death DC 25 each subsequent round or be immolated by hot plasma and reduced to ash. In 1d6 rounds the door is closed automatically from inside.

#### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Plasma elemental environment -- Planar binding, lesser 5<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Plasma elemental summoning -- Unseen servant 1<sup>st</sup>, Summon monster VI 6<sup>th</sup> wiz (electricity and air elemental), chain lightning 6<sup>th</sup>
    -   Stabilization artifice -- restoration, lesser 2nd clr, Consecrate 2<sup>nd</sup> cleric x 3
    -   Sensory lenses -- status 2<sup>nd</sup> clr x 3, Identify 1<sup>st</sup> wiz
    -   Deflagration chamber -- Wall of force 5<sup>th</sup> x 2
    -   Deflagration chamber ignition -- \[Mechanical\]

-   Breakdown

    -   Planar Binding, Lesser (Continuous 2000 x 5 x 9) x 0.5 (Duration) / (5/1 use per day) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 6750
    -   Wall of force (Command 1800 x 5 x 9) = 81000
    -   Plasma Elemental

        -   Unseen Servant (6 Units) (Single use, spell completion 25 x 1 x 1) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 25
        -   Create Plasma Elemental (6 Units) (Single use, spell completion 25 x 6 x 11) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1650
        -   Chain Lightning (6 Units) (Single use, spell completion 25 x 6 x 11) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1650

    -   Stabilization Artifice

        -   Restoration, Lesser (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 2700
        -   Consecrate (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 2700

    -   Sensory lenses

        -   Status (Continuous 2000 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Duration) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1500
        -   Identify (Command 1800 x 1 x 1) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 450

    -   Total = 98425

-   Duration:

    -   98 Days to produce
    -   784 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $9,842,500
    -   AURII - $29,527,500

### Hell\'s Mouth Smelter

-   What

    -   This is a large smelter with arrays of artifice around its top extents and a small set of ringed shift arrays around its base.
    -   The spherical base is sealed and the throat has its own large dimension door for injecting material.
    -   As it uses a vast quantity of energy it must be encased in a protective building to avoid damaging life in the surrounding area.
    -   A small ante building is attached containing an airlock to the forge as well as environment suits for use by those entering the building from there.

-   Where

    -   This is near to the ash works rather than to the separator.

-   Why

    -   It is the primary consumer of ashen due to the amount of energy required to melt heavy materials and ores.
    -   The smelter is used to process scrap material of the hardness of mithril or adamantine
    -   Reduces the influence of the environmental glyphs or magical effects on metals used for artifice.
    -   The injectors can also be used to input alchemical or mundane materials into the mix for specific alloys.

-   How

    -   The smelter maintains a controllable interior temperature that is consistent throughout its entire volume.
    -   The ringed dimension door arrays allow flow into nearby crucibles without having to penetrate the smelter\'s interior wall.
    -   Sensory equipment is placed around the bottom to determine what melted material to acquire to which crucibles
    -   The cap to the smelter is a wall of force that allows dense material down into the throat while ensuring gases pass into an exhaust
    -   The intake area has an active a dispel field as to suppress any active effects on raw materials smelted long enough to destroy them.
    -   Large canisters and mundane equipment near the base intake, filter, heat, and pump air to injectors just above the bell at the bottom of the smelter.
    -   Waste gases are vented to the ashen processor so any remaining energy can be dispersed and toxic compounds destructed.

#### Rules

-   The smelter can process 50 lbs of ore per turn into finished product

#### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Smelter heat source -- Heat Metal 2<sup>nd</sup> Drd, Flaming Sphere 2<sup>nd</sup> Drd
    -   Filter -- Shield 1<sup>st</sup> wiz x 2
    -   Throat suppressor-- Dispel Magic 3<sup>rd\ </sup>wiz
    -   Crucible coupler -- dimension door 4<sup>th</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Flaming sphere (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 2700
    -   Heat Metal (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 2700
    -   Shield (Command 1800 x 1 x 1) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 900
    -   Dispel Magic (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 20250
    -   Dimension Door (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) = 50400
    -   Total = 76950

-   Duration

    -   77 Days to produce
    -   616 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost (sans labor)

    -   USD - $7,695,000
    -   AURII - $23,085,000

### Abyssal Forge

-   What

    -   The abyssal forge is a sealed building designed for the construction of mundane artifice parts for later enchantment.
    -   A large section of the sealed building is a normal workshop containing all manner of tools required for working metal.
    -   The remainder of the sealed building\'s work area is heated uniformly to forging temperatures.
    -   The entire structure of the building is created out of refractory brick as to withstand heat stresses of the interior chamber.
    -   Though the outer chamber is not directly heated it must be sealed and pressurized as opening and closing the inner chamber will involve a blast of superheated air.
    -   The outer chamber is kept at a lower pressure than the interior one is active as to be able to withstand the pressure added by an opening airlock and avoid uncontrolled leakage.
    -   Air to both chambers is pumped in from outside but exhaust is circulated directly into the ashen processor as a method to filter unwanted gases.

-   Where

    -   The forge is very close to the smelter as it receives most of its material from there.

-   Why

    -   The consistent temperature removes the need to continually reheat metals while working.
    -   Though the tools themselves must be specifically made to tolerate the unforgiving environment the results are much higher quality.

-   How

    -   All tools inside the locked building are either magical items resistant to heat or sufficiently resistant to heat by nature.
    -   A special cistern is provided that maintains air or fluid at a requested temperature for purposes of cooling items while forging.
    -   The heated chamber is not the same size as the exterior of the building as large arrays of artifice creating the uniformly heated volume on the inside are on the inner layer of the wall.
    -   The airlock is a conventional refractory brick vault door and is opened mechanically.

#### Rules

-   This forge provides a +10 circumstance bonus to craft checks for items entirely constructed of metals
-   All weapons equal or less than 10 gold and armor equal or less than 50 GP has a 15% chance of being masterwork quality.
-   Failure to craft an item will not result in nonmagical materials being lost
-   Attempts to repair a magical item with this forge may make a single re-roll for a each item at the character\'s option.
-   Unprotected individuals attempting to use this forge or unprotected materials take 6 points of fire damage per round

#### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Protective layer -- Resist Energy 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz
    -   Area & forge heat source -- Fireball 3<sup>rd</sup> wiz
    -   Door -- Shield 1<sup>st</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Resist Energy (Continuous 2000 x 2 x 3) x 1.5 (Duration) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 13500
    -   Fireball (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) = 27000
    -   Shield (Continuous 2000 x 1 x 1) x 2 (Duration) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 2000
    -   Total = 42500

-   Duration

    -   43 Days to produce
    -   344 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost (sans labor)

    -   USD - $4,250,000
    -   AURII - $12,750,000

### Shard Top Array

-   What

    -   A rectangular machine atop a conveyor of rollers for plate glass or soft metals

-   Where

    -   This machine is in the main tool building with the magehand kiln and geode chamber

-   Why

    -   To allow for exacting cuts in high tolerance parts the shard top array can process a large volume at the same time from a material stream.
    -   The cutting tops can be made in volume and easily expanded in number to increase production
    -   The cutting tops can erode at range and at specific angles as long as there is an operator so reliefs or separated objects of glass can be created from plate glass provided there are blueprints for them

-   How

    -   Holographic coins contain the blueprints for all parts used and are inserted into the machine\'s receptacle for use in directing tops
    -   The cutting shard tops use directed shatter spells to cut into glass or metal directly beneath them.
    -   The tops are self-propelled and balancing and the pedestal with socket provides power and control for their operation
    -   The constructs must remain within 25 feet of a pedestal socket.
    -   As mindless constructs they have no innate intellect.

#### Rules

-   This item can construct arbitrary shapes of flat glass at a rate equal to the amount of functional tops there are within the machine times the operators check for that day.
-   Operating the equipment requires a spellcraft check DC 15 and craft (glass) and a blueprint for the desired item

#### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Tops -- Shatter 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz, Unseen Servant 2<sup>nd</sup> Wiz, clairvoyance 3<sup>rd</sup> wiz x 6
    -   Logic/socket -- Silent image 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Tops

        -   Shatter (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1800
        -   Unseen Servant (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1800
        -   Clairvoyance (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 6750

    -   Silent Image (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) = 10800
    -   Total = 21150

-   Duration

    -   21 Days to produce
    -   168 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost (sans labor)

    -   USD - $2,115,000
    -   AURII - $6,345,000

### Magehand Kiln

-   What

    -   A flat cylindrical kiln approximately a meter wide
    -   The top of the kiln has cylindrical receptacles that contain a 3d holographic image of the section directly below them.

-   Where

    -   The machine is in the main tool building

-   Why

    -   This tool provides for the firing of arbitrarily shaped refractory bricks or motifs.
    -   The bricks produced can have a complex and exactly repeatable structure to minimize variations in design that could introduce instability in artifice construction.

-   How

    -   Using two mutable walls of force the kiln conforms to the outside shape in the top and bottom of the pieces depicted in the image cylinders.
    -   Once the mold has been formed the kiln evacuates all air from the interior space
    -   Once a vacuum is achieved artifice sucks the intended refractory brick material into the mold
    -   After the mold has filled full of material the kiln heat field emits heat to the desired level so to bake the brick plate

#### Rules

-   This item can construct arbitrary reliefs and shapes of ceramics at a rate twice that of the operator\'s stonework craft check for that day.
-   It is possible for this equipment to form any stone material then harden it back to full strength so repairs of stone objects are possible.
-   Operating the equipment requires a spellcraft check DC 15 and craft (stonework) and a blueprint coin for the desired item

#### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Forming -- Prestidigitation 0<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Etching -- Mage hand 0<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Logic -- silent image 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz
    -   Solidification -- Soften earth and stone 2<sup>nd</sup> drd, transmute mud to rock 5<sup>th</sup> wiz

-   Cost

    -   Prestidigitation (Command 1800 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 450
    -   Mage hand (Command 1800 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 450
    -   Silent Image (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 8100
    -   Soften earth and stone (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 2700
    -   Transmute mud to rock (Command 1800 x 5 x 9) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) = 40500
    -   Total = 52200

-   Duration

    -   52 Days to produce
    -   416 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost (sans labor)

    -   USD - $5,220,000
    -   AURII - $15,660,000

### Geode Chamber

-   What

    -   A large spheroid embedded in a pedestal housing environmental equipment
    -   Contains a larger number of safety mechanisms and power staging in order to fill sudden or high demand by the artifice

-   Where

    -   The machine is in the main tool building

-   Why

    -   In order to have access to gems of very large size and high purity the geode chamber is used to grow crystals of a desired type to size
    -   The pressures required to produce these large geodes are immense and unconventional means is still preferable to searching for large natural crystals with desirable characteristics

-   How

    -   The Geode chamber maintains the desired environment and intakes materials provided at given rates to allow crystals to form ideally

#### Rules

-   Roll on treasure table DMG 3-6 for every 500 gold of resources input into a cycle of the geode chamber
-   Each cycle of the geode chamber takes 1 day for every 1000 gold of material to be injected into the system.

#### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Heat -- Fireball 3<sup>rd</sup> wiz
    -   Pressure -- Bull\'s strength 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz
    -   Regulation logic -- endure elements 1<sup>st</sup> wiz
    -   Intake hopper -- Dimension door 4<sup>th</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Fireball (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 6750
    -   Bull\'s Strength (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1800
    -   Endure Elements (Command 1800 x 1 x 1) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 300
    -   Dimension Door (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) = 50400
    -   Total = 59250

-   Duration

    -   59 Days to produce
    -   472 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost (Sans labor)

    -   USD - $5,925,000
    -   AURII - $17,775,000

Conjugate Gate Modules
----------------------

### Maelstrom Chamber

#### Rules

-   Engaging the maelstrom chamber requires an investment of 500g per hour in materials and minions to control the maelstrom for forging
-   Once the chamber is ready the mage enters through the interlock and opens the door into the initiation dome. Passing the interlock in either direction requires a DC 10 will save or become insane as per the insanity spell for 2d4 days
-   When properly sealed in the chamber the mage may use materials delivered to the chamber to forge magical or quasimagical items at five times normal speed, forge epic level magic items, or create artifacts.
-   Even if the user does not have the requisite magical abilities they can still create items as long as they understand the functionality of the item they are attempting to forge. The check can be either knowledge (arcana) or spellcraft and has a DC of 5 + 5 per magical bonus or 1 DC per two thousand gold of cost, whichever is higher.
-   If the creator of the magic item cannot cast the spells required they must be cast on the item before it will activate.
-   If creating quasimagical items the caster must make a will check DC 5 + 2 per hour for every hour inside the chamber or gain 1 point of temporary wisdom damage.
-   When the chamber is closed any active effects on the crafter\'s person function involuntarily as if the chamber has a wild magic trait. \[DMG 149\] Effects or active spells roll on the table then stop. Charged or daily limit magic items expend a charge each round on a roll on the wild magic table for its effect unless the effect says not to expend a charge. If non-artifact magic items without charge or daily limits fail a save DC of 10 after discharging every round they cease to be magic items after rolling on the table.
-   Creating Artifacts

    -   Creating artifacts requires the DM\'s approval and there is a 1% cumulative chance per session per artifact while artificing that the user will receive 6d8 death damage and must roll fort DC 20 or die instantly leaving no body behind. Succeeding in the save results in insanity for 1d3 weeks and all previous progress that duration is lost.
    -   A knowledge arcana check DC 30 is required to be able to understand how to use the chamber to create artifacts.
    -   Creating artifacts requires a DC 20 will check every hour or gain two points of temporary wisdom and constitution damage.
    -   Much like destroying them, creating artifacts is a risky business and anyone doing so is likely to attract attention from the powers that be. There is a 1% chance per item created per creator that a powerful entity will arrive during creation even if only to observe. Prolific artificers are almost always under constant surveillance even if the presence does not make itself known.

#### Total Cost

-   Initiation Dome: 114800
-   Control: 2000
-   Interlock: 25300
-   Exit Energy Disperser: 40725
-   Foundation: 289100
-   Total for maelstrom Forge

    -   471925 GP
    -   $47,192,500 USD
    -   $141,577,500 AURII

#### Initiation Dome

-   What

    -   A large sealed dome with an entrance from the interlock
    -   Various strong protective spells and equipment are seen active on its surface in the nature of reinforcing the material from time flux or physical stresses
    -   Inside the chamber are various artifice tools for use by Keen and are properly scaled to its size.

-   Where

    -   Connected to the interlock behind two ritual circles that keep harmful effects to a minimum that glyphsure armor can resist.

-   Why

    -   The initiation dome houses the maelstrom of raw magic that Kreen uses as an environment for the forging of artifice
    -   The process of tampering with the interior space would be difficult to properly contain without a physical barrier so the chamber and interlock is used.
    -   As the environment is hostile to unprepared minds a separated area is required for actually operating the controlling equipment

-   How

    -   The chamber fills with raw mana then begins distending normal space inside the chamber to increase its capacity for raw magic.
    -   Once a designated density of raw mana is reached the interlock can be used for a properly trained artificer to shape and link glyphs using their own mind and knowledge.
    -   The artificer becomes aware of multiple frames of time and selves simultaneously which can rapidly destroy the sanity of improperly equipped minds.

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Maelstrom -- Limited wish 7<sup>th</sup> wiz, Power Word Forge 7<sup>th</sup>, Fabricate 5<sup>th</sup>
    -   Chamber -- Resist energy 2<sup>nd</sup> as 11th, Freedom of movement 4<sup>th</sup>, Zone of truth 2<sup>nd</sup>

-   Breakdown

    -   Maelstrom

        -   Limited Wish (Command 1800 x 7 x 13) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) = 54600
        -   Power Word (Forge) (Command 1800 x 6 x 11) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 19800
        -   Fabricate (Command 1800 x 5 x 9) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 13500

    -   Chamber

        -   Resist Energy (Command 1800 x 2 x 11) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 6600
        -   Freedom of movement (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 8400
        -   Zone of Truth (Continuous 2000 x 2 x 3) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 2000

    -   Total = 114800

-   Duration

    -   115 Days to produce
    -   920 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $11,480,000
    -   AURII - $34,440,000

#### Control

-   What

    -   A series of consoles containing various readouts for environment conditions and equipment
    -   Built to human height as Kreen will be inside the chamber

-   Where

    -   Outside the initiation dome behind the upper protective wall of the foundation

-   Why

    -   As the artificer inside the initiation dome has a perturbed sense of time it is difficult to understand rates of change.
    -   Outside the dome while active the consoles are free of the very dynamic flow of time within the maelstrom.

-   How

    -   Coupled using standard mechanics to various pistons and lights providing a readout to remote equipment.

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Interface -- unseen servant 1<sup>st</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Unseen servant (Continuous 2000 x 1 x 1) x 1 (Duration) = 2000

-   Duration

    -   2 Days to produce
    -   16 Man-hours to produce
    -   Total = 2000

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $200,000
    -   AURII - $600,000

#### Interlock

-   What

    -   A glass lined electrically insulated tunnel with glyphs etched in the surface.
    -   A set of poles in its midpoint provide the intake for the exit energy disperser

-   Where

    -   Connected to the door of the maelstrom initiation dome then outward

-   Why

    -   Upon exiting the maelstrom an artificer will have a great deal of alternate selves that reintegrate into normal time using the energy disperser intake.
    -   The process is very electrically active and it requires a sealed, protected area in which to discharge.

-   How

    -   The glass is magically reinforced with conductive mesh on the inside layer with a backup layer inside the glass itself behind rudimentary glyph shielding.
    -   The frame is made of doppelganger steel that resists the pressures and stresses without shearing or disengaging from the glass plating that insulates the area.

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Insulation envelope -- Resist energy (electricity) 2nd wiz
    -   Interlock -- Arcane Lock 2nd wiz
    -   Walls/Frame -- Crystal glass, Doppelganger steel, shield 1st wiz, resist energy (electricity) 2nd wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Resist Energy (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) = 10800
    -   Arcane Lock (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) = 10800
    -   Shield (Continuous 2000 x 1 x 1) x 2 (Duration) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1000
    -   Resist Energy (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 2700
    -   Total = 25300

-   Duration

    -   25 Days to produce
    -   200 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $2,530,000
    -   AURII - $7,590,000

#### Exit Energy Disperser

-   What

    -   A set of superconductive pegs with an expendable discharge peg anchored into the side.

-   Where

    -   Inside the interlock at its midpoint

-   Why

    -   The disperser conducts the majority of electricity away while the expendable pegs of electrically conductive, and physically robust material resists the forces exerted by the exiting artificer
    -   The discharge is of a very high moment of electricity so superconductive material is required to withstand the discharge and conduct it far enough away so the coupled disperser can deal with the amperage.

-   How

    -   The superconductive pegs provide an avenue of no resistance for the electricity to be vented far enough away that it does not damage any equipment.
    -   The expendable pegs are usually made of materials that can be used as a structurally sound handhold for the artificer to grab and not damage the fragile superconductive peg
    -   The environment is maintained at a very low temperature using magically treated glass that resists any thermal transfer.

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   superconductor -- Call lightning 3rd Drd, chill metal drd 2nd
    -   Glass insulation -- Wall of ice 4th wiz , resist energy 2nd wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Lightning Bolt (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 10125
    -   Chill Metal (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 2700
    -   Wall of ice (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) = 25200
    -   Resist Energy (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 2700
    -   Total = 40725

-   Duration

    -   41 Days to produce
    -   328 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $4,072,500
    -   AURII - $12,217,500

#### Foundation

-   What

    -   A large open chamber filled with rows of etched metal spikes and cannon-like protrusions from the floor

-   Where

    -   Underneath the grating of the initiation chamber

-   Why

    -   This area allows for the expansion of the storm and is full of the equipment that sustains the glyph maelstrom
    -   The fringe of the storm is maintained here so that the majority of the energy is maintained at a constant flow in comparison to more irregular fringe areas of the maelstrom

-   How

    -   The raw mana impellers inject into the storm at controlled rates to feed the spin of the maelstrom forming in the initiation dome.
    -   Contact points in the floor ensure removal of imbalanced locations within the storm so that it does not become lopsided and exert force on that side of the chamber

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Maelstrom generators -- Spell turning 7<sup>th</sup> wiz, Permanency 5<sup>th</sup> wiz, Limited Wish 7<sup>th</sup>
    -   Energy Balance -- hallow/unhallow 5<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Center balance -- locate object 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz, dimensional anchor 4<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Interior Wall -- Wall of iron (lead) 5<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Eye Dias -- Levitate 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Spell Turning (Command 1800 x 7 x 13) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 27300
    -   Permanency (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 8400
    -   Limited Wish (Command 1800 x 7 x 13) = 104600
    -   Hallow/Unhallow (Command 1800 x 5 x 9) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 60750
    -   Locate object (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 2700
    -   Dimensional Anchor (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 12600
    -   Wall of iron (Lead) (Command 1800 x 5 x 9) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 60750
    -   Levitate (Continuous 2000 x 2 x 3) x 2 (Duration) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 12000
    -   Total = 289100

-   Duration

    -   289 Days to produce
    -   2312 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $28,910,000
    -   AURII - $86,730,000

### Ashen Works

#### Rules

-   Organic material that enters the top processor is subject to 8d8 points of damage, other material with water in it is subject to 8d6 damage.
-   Stone, glass, or metal with a hardness of 12 or less progressively fragments as it goes down the throat past the grinding wheels
-   The remainder of solid material is turned into dried dust by receiving 4d12 bludgeoning damage from large grinding wheels
-   If the material is not fully destroyed by the shatter field at the time it enters the foundation then the material is too hard and turns into slag instead. Magical items become slag when broken regardless of their composition.
-   Magical items that withstand the process are expelled wholly embedded in the slag though likely severely damaged.

#### Total Cost

-   Top Processor: 162900
-   Foundation: 88500
-   Ashenducts: 43560
-   Total Cost for Ashen works

    -   294960 GP
    -   $29,496,000 USD
    -   $88,488,000 AURII

#### Top Processor

-   What

    -   A massive grinder sitting atop the foundation inlaid into the ground
    -   Pit underneath a waterproof entry

-   Where

    -   This is located at an area accessible to road that allows for dumping of material.

-   Why

    -   The material entering the foundation is best processed in small chunks so anything incoming is ground down
    -   The processor also ensures that sentient creatures have an opportunity to escape before it engages the last of two walls of force interleaved

-   How

    -   A dehydration field removes any water that enters the throat to a certain maximum rate once the outer field has closed and the inner field opened.
    -   It then breaks down any crystalline, stone, or like matter while passing through the middle of the shaft where the grinders lie
    -   Physical grinders break down the dried material and shards into dust
    -   The shearing forces render the remainder of the fine particles which drain into the foundation\'s reaction chamber.
    -   Excess water is expelled through piping

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Lock fields -- Wall of ice (glass) x 2 x 4<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Material processor -- horrid wilting 8<sup>th</sup> wiz, Shatter 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz, Transmute rock to mud 5<sup>th</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Wall of ice (glass) (2 Units) (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 75600
    -   Horrid Wilting (Command 1800 x 8 x 15) = 72000
    -   Shatter (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1800
    -   Transmute Rock to Mud (Command 1800 x 5 x 9) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 13500
    -   Total = 162900

-   Duration

    -   163 Days to produce
    -   1304 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $16,290,000
    -   AURII - $48,870,000

#### Foundation

-   What

    -   A deep column set into the ground consisting of thick refractory tile surfaces and intermittent square metal plates covered in glyphwork to resist the passage of ashen
    -   The outer layer has equipment inside human-sized hallways and rooms

-   Where

    -   Below the processor and inside the sleeve of underground rooms housing artifice and mechanical equipment used in the processor

-   Why

    -   This serves as the primary reaction chamber for transmuting fine particulate matter into ashen.

-   How

    -   The reaction chamber in the base of the foundation turns this dust into a dense colloidal solution using pressurized negative energy, resulting in ashen

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Infuser -- circle of death 6<sup>th</sup> wiz enervation 4<sup>th</sup> wiz, Shadow Evocation 5<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Pit shielding -- protection from energy (negative energy) 5<sup>th</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Circle of Death (Command 1800 x 6 x 11) = 39600
    -   Enervation (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 8400
    -   Shadow Evocation (Command 1800 x 5 x 9) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 20250
    -   Protection from negative energy (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 20250
    -   Total = 88500

-   Duration

    -   89 Days to produce
    -   712 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $8,850,000
    -   AURII - $26,550,000

#### Ashenducts

-   What

    -   Ceramic and glass hexagonal conduits that exit the ashen works then leave to the entropy demiurge
    -   Generally thick brick conduit buried underground or through underground hallways
    -   Total cost for a length of 250m

-   Where

    -   Running to and fro from building to building where artifice is housed and negative energy, glyph, or spent ashen is used

-   Why

    -   Most of these energies cannot be safely conducted through the ground so channels are used as a separate environment in which to move the resources
    -   Ground conduction has a much higher rate of loss than the focused channels without a conduit

-   How

    -   The glass liner is lead-lined against the passage of ashen, ethereal, or glyphs and the brick provides structure
    -   Circle pressure and consumption drives the passage of ashen from point to point much like water

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Conduit stream -- Passwall 5<sup>th</sup> wiz, Spell turning 7<sup>th</sup> wiz, Haste 3<sup>rd</sup>
    -   Exterior Wall -- antiplant shell 4<sup>th</sup> drd

-   Breakdown

    -   Passwall (Command 1800 x 5 x 9) = 27000
    -   Magic Circle against Chaos (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 4500
    -   Antiplant Shell (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) / (5/1 use per day) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 7560
    -   Haste (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 4500
    -   Total = 43560

-   Duration

    -   44 Days to produce
    -   352 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $4,356,000
    -   AURII - $13,068,000

### Sourcer

#### Rules

-   Provides units of power as described in the MacBeathenne mythal rules

#### Total Cost

-   Base: 1387.5
-   Foundation: 66120
-   Conduit:50775
-   Drill Well: 66280
-   Containment:160425
-   Total for Sourcer

    -   344987.5 GP
    -   $34,498,750 USD
    -   $103,496,250 AURII

#### Base

-   What

    -   Metal shelter and stone platform on which the artifice is built on the ground
    -   Provides a shelter for the sourcer from the elements and lightning strikes.
    -   Entirely mundane except for any materials used

-   Where

    -   On all four cardinal points of the main conjugate gate inside of small artificial ponds to minimize noise

-   Why

    -   The sourcer generates a low vibration and turbulence from the ley borehole can prove detrimental to a structure deeply rooted in the ground
    -   Insulates the sourcer from the ground as to inhibit accidental shorting from canister to earth.

-   How

    -   The brick housing covers a sturdy metal housing with a flexible base to absorb shocks and vibration
    -   Waterproof and caged in metal to handle repeated lightning strikes

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Wall of iron 6<sup>th</sup> wiz, Wall of stone 5<sup>th</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Wall of iron (Single use, spell completion 25 x 6 x 11) = 825
    -   Wall of stone (Single use, spell completion 25 x 5 x 9) = 562.5
    -   Total = 1387.5

-   Duration

    -   1.39 Days to produce
    -   11.12 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $138,750
    -   AURII - $416,250

#### Foundation

-   What

    -   A ringed gate embedded into the ground through which a glyph channel has been extended.

-   Where

    -   Hovering inside of a hole drilled through the center of the base

-   Why

    -   This provides access to the ethereal plane so that the physical conduits can tap into the ley well and transmit safely across the planar barrier.
    -   It also provides a way of severing the conduit in case of a blowout deeper in the drilled channel

-   How

    -   Not quite a gate to a different plane entirely it is merely a standing access to the ethereal plane.

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Access -- Ethereal Jaunt 7<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Sever -- Contingency 6<sup>th</sup> wiz, detect magic 0<sup>th</sup> wiz, status 2<sup>nd</sup> clr

-   Breakdown

    -   Ethereal Jaunt (Command 1800 x 7 x 13) / (5/1 use per day) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 24570
    -   Contingency (Command 1800 x 6 x 11) = 39600
    -   Detect Magic (Command 1800 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 150
    -   Status (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1800
    -   Total = 66120

-   Duration

    -   66 Days to produce
    -   528 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $6,612,000
    -   AURII - $19,836,000

#### Conduit

-   What

    -   An elevated reinforced ceramic duct
    -   Covered mend crystals line the duct along each bracing point
    -   Periodically supported by thick triangular metal braces some of which extend into the bottom of the pond they cross over

-   Where

    -   Connected to the foundation of the sourcer then running cardinally toward the center of the conjugate gate.

-   Why

    -   The ley boreholes cannot be placed very close to each other so the sourcers must transmit their energy to the main equipment

-   How

    -   Insulated in a matter comparable to the ashworks itself this conduit has a glass inner layer that inhibits the passage of raw mana
    -   Actual conduction is based on potential of the drawing equipment as units of energy travel to where they are required.

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Mend crystals -- Mending 0<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Liner -- spell turning 7<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Total = 50775

-   Breakdown

    -   Mending (Continuous 2000 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.5 (Duration) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 375
    -   Globe of invulnerability, lesser (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) = 50400
    -   Total = 50775

-   Duration

    -   51 Days to produce
    -   408 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   For 4 conduits
    -   USD - $5,077,500
    -   AURII - $15,232,500

#### Drill Well

-   What

    -   A large drill head with a few layers of equipment attached to the bottom

-   Where

    -   Hovering above the foundation

-   Why

    -   This drill head ensures the borehole is capped and forms individual units of energy as they are drained from the ley well.

-   How

    -   A drill ram extends through the foundation into the borehole and keeps the channel open as it slowly attempts to seal
    -   An insulation field helps maintain the inner channel open
    -   Outside the ram\'s insulating field a ring of collectors skim energy buildup into the charge formant.

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Charge Formant -- Mnemonic Enhancer 4<sup>th</sup> wiz, Globe of Invulnerability 6<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Drill -- Stone shape 4<sup>th</sup> drd, Telekinesis 4<sup>th</sup> wiz, Soften earth and stone 2<sup>nd</sup> drd

-   Breakdown

    -   Mnemonic enhancer (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) = 25200
    -   Globe of invulnerability, lesser (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) = 25200
    -   Stone Shape (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) / (5/1 use per day) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1680
    -   Telekinesis (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 8400
    -   Soften Earth and Stone (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1800
    -   Total - 62280

-   Duration

    -   62 Days to produce
    -   496 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $6,228,000
    -   AURII - $18,684,000

#### Ley Borehole

-   What

    -   A hole drilled though the ethereal plane making a secure conduit directly from sourcer well to ley well
    -   Steel tubing extends down through to the well where a drill head connects to bridge the gap.

-   Where

    -   Extending from the foundation gate to the ethereal extents of the ley well

-   Why

    -   Matter inhibits the free flow of glyphs even through an artificial ethereal channel while the prime matter represented in the ethereal need not be linear.
    -   With the borehole securely connected to the ley well and avoiding uncontrolled venting the borehole need not pump any glyphs from the well.

-   How

    -   This is a modified conduit that is prepared for higher raw loads and serves as a sealed pipe for pressure from the ley well to follow
    -   The bottom of the conduit is a well graft delivered by the drill head and keeps the sourcer drill well from dismounting the ley well

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Channel -- Globe of invulnerability, lesser 4<sup>th</sup> wiz, Wall of iron 6<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Well graft -- Dimensional Lock 4<sup>th</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Globe of invulnerability, lesser (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 18900
    -   Wall of iron (Command 1800 x 6 x 11) / (5/1 use per day) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 5940
    -   Dimensional anchor (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) = 50400
    -   Total = 75240

-   Duration

    -   75 Days to produce
    -   600 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $7,524,000
    -   AURII - $22,572,000

#### Containment

-   What

    -   The first layer of containment is a large divoted ceramic surface covered in etching
    -   The second layer of containment is composed of large coils and insulated surfaces
    -   The third layer is lead metal shielding
    -   The last layer is a protective wall that is heavily reinforced with metal and stone bracing as well as ritual circle leading to the control room
    -   A spherical container on top is a retaining globe for finished motes

-   Where

    -   The first layer surrounds the crucible with the second on top of it
    -   The last layer has an inner coating of the third layer
    -   The spherical container is attached to the top of the mote formant cylinder

-   Why

    -   The first layer isn\'t designed to retain force but for the collection of raw mana
    -   The second layer deals with the temperature of the reaction chamber and partial heat regulation.
    -   The third layer is designed to inhibit radiation exposure
    -   The fourth wall serves as reserve strength in case of containment breach to allow the emergency planeshift time to activate before compromise.
    -   The spherical container maintains the individual levels of motes so that the system can extract regular units of refined magical energy.
    -   As motes of different sizes are extracted from the system the smaller motes below collapse to form their higher-energy motes.
    -   The formant cylinder refines the smallest-sized motes to fill the contained orbit system from the smallest-sized motes

-   How

    -   The first layer contains rows of hexagon packed hemispheres in which mote formant artifice creates rough motes for polishing by sourcer equipment.
    -   The second layer has coolant coils to absorb some of the heat generated from the drilling and regulate internal environment temperature
    -   The third layer is lead as to deal with any interfering radiation
    -   The fourth wall is some minor additional lead sheeting with thick reinforced concrete wall to contain potential breaches.
    -   A ritual circle covers all extents of the outside surface and is used with emergency shifting artifice in case of blowout.

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Ritual circle -- Ethereal Jaunt 7<sup>th</sup> wiz, detect magic 0<sup>th</sup>,
    -   First layer -- Rary\'s Mnemonic Enhancer 4<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Second Layer -- Chill metal drd 2<sup>nd</sup>, chill shield 4<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Orbit container -- Globe of invulnerability, lesser 4<sup>th</sup> wiz, Vampiric touch 4<sup>th</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Ethereal jaunt (Command 1800 x 7 x 13) = 81900
    -   Detect magic (Command 1800 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 225
    -   Rary\'s Mnemonic Enhancer (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 37800
    -   Chill Metal (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 2700
    -   Chill Shield (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 12600
    -   Globe of invulnerability, lesser (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 12600
    -   Vampiric Touch (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 12600
    -   Total = 160425

-   Duration

    -   160 Days to produce
    -   1280 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $16,042,500
    -   AURII - $48,127,500

### Metasentient Core

#### Rules

-   Refer to the main MacBeathenne mythal document for metasentient abilities
-   The room where this is housed causes 2d4+2 radiation damage per round to all living creatures from a hostile atmosphere
-   Other nonliving matter not part of the artifice takes 1d3 radiation damage per round

#### Total Cost

-   Crown: 340935
-   Refined base glyph stores: 70250
-   Ghostgear Store: 42383
-   Memory Store: 31050
-   Core Pylon: 144621
-   Total cost for Metasentient Core:

    -   629239 GP
    -   62,923,900 USD
    -   188,771,700 AURII

#### Base Information construct (Crown)

-   What

    -   A rising tower complete with crystalline dish and conduits transiting the chamber

-   Where

    -   At each cardinal directions of the metasentient core 8 spires curving from the floor to just past the tip of the obelisk

-   Why

    -   The base array allows the metasentient to be decoupled from power in the event it acts unpredictably
    -   Provides a basal intellect to process logical thought efficiently and an external viewpoint with which to judge sanity of the metasentient

-   How

    -   A construct mind and various artifice and ritual couplers allow communication across the gap
    -   Flexible and freely connectable the crown and metasentient assigns specific tasks or activities to certain points of connection as points of focus

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Spire Intellect -- Animate Object x 8 x 6<sup>th</sup> clr, permanency 5<sup>th</sup> wiz, Message x 8 x 0<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Spire Equipment -- Contingency 6<sup>th</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Animate Object (8 Units) (Single use, spell completion 25 x 6 x 11) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 2200
    -   Permanency (8 Units) (Single use, spell completion 25 x 5 x 9) = 323000
    -   Message (8 Units) (Command 1800 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1200
    -   Contingency (Command 1800 x 6 x 11) x 0.5 (Duration) / (5/1 use per day) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 14535
    -   Total Cost = 340935

-   Duration

    -   341 Days to produce
    -   2728 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $34,093,500
    -   AURII - $102,280,500

#### Refined Base Glyph Stores

-   What

    -   Miniature cylinders connected to conduits that proceed directly to the core pylon and crown

-   Where

    -   In racks separated by glyphs of higher grade circles
    -   Lining the walls with common conduits for each size connected to all equipment

-   Why

    -   The metasentient is sensitive to power fluctuation and is the primary sustained consumer next to the crown

-   How

    -   Smaller versions of the sourcers they are separated to provide for very fast response by any given circle draw.
    -   The common conduits allow for parallel response to any power draw to keep all seats full

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Seat -- Magic Jar x 2 x 5<sup>th</sup> wiz, Vampiric touch 3<sup>rd</sup> wiz x 2

-   Breakdown

    -   Magic Jar (2 Units) (Continuous 2000 x 5 x 9) x 0.5 (Duration) = 50000
    -   Vampiric Touch (2 Units) (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 20250
    -   Total Cost = 70250

-   Duration

    -   70 Days to produce
    -   560 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $7,025,000
    -   AURII - $21,075,000

#### Ghostgear Store

-   What

    -   A number of large reinforced cubes with metal gears and projected glyph plates floating inside in racks

-   Where

    -   Radially surrounding the core pylon between the spires of the crown
    -   From floor to half the height of the crown

-   Why

    -   These provide a connection from the crown to all other equipment in the artifice
    -   Also serve as a reserve component store for the core pylon in case of damage
    -   Are ghostgear matrix with the purpose of interconnection and total storable volume instead of processing

-   How

    -   The side walls of these large stores are composed of steel reinforced sapphire bricks

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Access, Read/store/move/evict -- Read Magic 0<sup>th</sup> wiz, Silent Image 1<sup>st</sup> wiz, Dimension door 4<sup>th</sup> wiz, Erase 1<sup>st</sup> wiz
    -   Communication -- Message 0<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Structure/Volume -- Magnificent Mansion 7<sup>th</sup> wiz, Mage Armor 1<sup>st</sup>, Levitate 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Read Magic (Command 1800 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 113
    -   Silent Image (Command 1800 x 1 x 1) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 225
    -   Dimension Door (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 9450
    -   Erase (Command 1800 x 1 x 1) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 225
    -   Message (Command 1800 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 450
    -   Leomund\'s secret chest (Command 1800 x 7 x 13) / (5/1 use per day) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) = 27587
    -   Mage Armor (Continuous 2000 x 1 x 1) x 1 (Duration) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 333
    -   Levitate (Continuous 2000 x 2 x 3) x 2 (Duration) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 4000
    -   Total Cost = 42383

-   Duration

    -   42 Days to produce
    -   336 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $4,238,300
    -   AURII - $12,714,900

#### Memory Store

-   What

    -   A large quad helix line of blueprint spheres with two arcs intersecting directly over the top of the core pylon
    -   Reader bases at each end of the arcs

-   Where

    -   Arcing over the core pylon

-   Why

    -   Enables the metasentient to access information about any of its component parts
    -   A reader is mounted at the peak of the core pylon
    -   The reader stores must have endpoints at each side to support and the endpoints can share load while being easily accessible
    -   The core pylon\'s receiving apparatus hovers directly overhead of the core pylon to receive transmissions from the interior of the arcs
    -   This memory store enables the metasentient to retain an entire moment of existence for the token itself as to identify and reference it in their minds as well as ensure the token is not damaged from its original state.

-   How

    -   The readers contained in each base within their respective cartridges can write or erase information contained within each blueprint sphere
    -   The readers are a bit less than a fourth the interior diameter of the helix
    -   Four columns of readers fit in a helix that alternate the areas of spheres that they cover

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Storage -- Levitate 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz, Arcane mark 0<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Retrieval system -- Locate object 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz, status 2<sup>nd</sup> clr, fly 3<sup>rd</sup> wiz
    -   Reader -- Daylight 3rd, read magic 0<sup>th\ </sup>wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Levitate (Continuous 2000 x 2 x 3) x 2 (Duration) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 9000
    -   Arcane Mark (Command 1800 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 225
    -   Fly (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 4500
    -   Locate Object (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1800
    -   Status (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1800
    -   Read Magic (Command 1800 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 225
    -   Daylight (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) = 13500
    -   Total cost = 31050

-   Duration

    -   31 Days to produce
    -   248 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $3,105,000
    -   AURII - $9,315,000

#### Core Pylon

-   What

    -   A double sided obelisk floating over a cradle
    -   Edges are flattened and covered with conical emitters
    -   Inside are spatially folded gears which look as if turning flatly while folded at right angles
    -   From the inside of the viewing area the room looks blue as only a small subset of color is allowed through

-   Where

    -   In the deepest chamber of the gate complex
    -   Room is reinforced and insulated from radiation by customized walls of force lining the walls

-   Why

    -   The walls of force restrict passage of energy either by conduction or transmission except for shades of blue to limit radiation
    -   Directly below the conjugate gate for ease of construction and protection of the metasentient from bombardment
    -   Emitters on the sides transmit bursts of information to the crown\'s receivers
    -   In order to insert enough artifice in a confined space various extradimensional volumes are used that cause visual distortion

-   How

    -   The metasentient is a construct by physical presence but sentient by the employment of the intellects of its token bearers
    -   The surface plate on the metasentient is a hard clear sapphire for strength as well as transparency for visual inspection
    -   The emitters send pulses of light to the receivers on the crown though glyphs flowing for transmission transit visually slower

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Core -- Wish 9<sup>th</sup> wiz, animate object 6<sup>th</sup> wiz, Magnificent mansion 7<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Communications array -- Rary\'s Telepathic Bond, Status, Locate object, Locate Creature
    -   Room insulation management - Wall of iron(lead) 5<sup>th</sup> wiz, mending, Protection from energy 3<sup>rd</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Wish (Single use, spell completion 25 x 9 x 17) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 4804
    -   Animate Objects (Single use, spell completion 25 x 6 x 11) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 275
    -   Rary\'s telepathic bond (2 Units) (Continuous 2000 x 5 x 9) x 1.5 (Duration) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 50625
    -   Status (2 Units) (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 12600
    -   Locate Creature (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 6300
    -   Locate Object (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1350
    -   Magnificent Mansion (Continuous 2000 x 7 x 13) x 1 (Duration) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) = 61167
    -   Wall of iron (lead) (Command 1800 x 5 x 9) / (5/1 use per day) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 2700
    -   Make whole (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1800
    -   Resist Energy (Continuous 2000 x 2 x 3) x 1.5 (Duration) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 3000
    -   Total cost = 144621

-   Duration

    -   145 Days to produce
    -   1160 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $14,462,100
    -   AURII - $43,386,300

### Conjugate Gate 

#### Rules

-   Refer to main MacBeathenne document for rules

#### Total Cost

-   Anchor: 29250
-   Regulator Area: 78676
-   Rings: 92025
-   Coolant arrays: 27675
-   Atmospheric injectors: 24600
-   Control Apparatus: 77665
-   Total cost for conjugate gate

    -   329891 Gold
    -   $32,989,100 USD
    -   $98,967,300 AURII

#### Anchor

-   What

    -   A cylindrical dais set above a runic circle with a clear core housing a ghostgear matrix.
    -   Two thin cylindrical couplers align with the atmospheric injectors below

-   Where

    -   At the top of the pit hovering in space above the atmospheric injectors

-   Why

    -   The central matrix is for communication across the internal joined space

-   How

    -   The anchor serves as a hop to the core gate\'s apparatus and glows red once the machine has joined within to apply sustaining force

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Dias -- Dimensional lock 4<sup>th</sup> wiz, levitate 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Dimensional Lock (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) = 25200
    -   Levitate (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 4050
    -   Total = 29250

-   Duration

    -   29 Days to produce
    -   232 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $2,925,000
    -   AURII - $8,775,000

#### Regulator area

-   What

    -   Large machinery composed of Ghostgear storage cylinders and various types of mundane computation equipment.

-   Where

    -   On all four sides of the pit built into the walls behind reinforcement and insulation.

-   Why

    -   The area be reinforced to prevent interference as well as safety from any damage given quickly spinning rings that may cause projectiles
    -   Provides a local insulator and regulating force for the core conjugate gate
    -   The regulator area allows the core conjugate gate to power apparatus without contaminating the local ley

-   How

    -   Various types of sourcer artifice are employed to provide sufficient fault tolerance for the energies involved
    -   The area is isolated from normal space to prevent leakage into the surrounding environment while coupled

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Energy bridges -- rope trick 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz
    -   Extradimensional insulator equipment -- Magnificent Mansion 7<sup>th</sup> wiz, wall of force 5<sup>th</sup> wiz, shield 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz, private sanctum 5th

-   Breakdown

    -   Rope Trick (Continuous 2000 x 2 x 3) x 1 (Duration) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 6000
    -   Magnificent Mansion (Command 1800 x 7 x 13) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) = 40950
    -   Wall of force (Command 1800 x 5 x 9) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 15188
    -   Shield (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1350
    -   Private Sanctum (Command 1800 x 5 x 9) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 15188
    -   Total = 78676

-   Duration

    -   79 Days to produce
    -   632 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $7,867,600
    -   AURII - $23,602,800

#### Rings

-   What

    -   Large reinforced rings covered densely in runic writing carrying periodic artifice housings.

-   Where

    -   At the center of the gate pit area

-   Why

    -   These rings focus and regulate the extradimensional space that the conjugate gate uses to link with the main gate.
    -   The housings allow for observation and field balancing, temperature, internal pressure and other such purposes relating to sustaining the internal space.
    -   The rings change course to apply balanced forces against the coupled extradimensional space so that it does not drift while performing adjustments to the fabric of its reality

-   How

    -   Each housing contains a device to provide targeting at the exact center of the gate at all times.

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Rings -- Gate 9<sup>th</sup> wiz, Rope Trick 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz
    -   Monitoring Equipment - Status 2<sup>nd</sup> clr, levitate 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz, locate object 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz, endure elements 1st

-   Breakdown

    -   Contact Other Plane (Command 1800 x 7 x 13) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) = 81900
    -   Rope Trick (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 2700
    -   Status (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1350
    -   Locate Object (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1350
    -   Levitate (Continuous 2000 x 2 x 3) x 2 (Duration) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 4500
    -   Endure elements (Command 1800 x 1 x 1) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 225
    -   Total = 92025

-   Duration

    -   92 Days to produce
    -   736 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $9,202,500
    -   AURII - $27,607,500

#### Coolant Arrays

-   What

    -   Portions of air conduit that have a dense grid of projected white fields emerging from a frames
    -   The outer side of the intake has a red field with a mist flowing down at all times.
    -   Between the frames a frosty surface causes diffraction in the air.

-   Where

    -   Located just ahead of the air intake

-   Why

    -   They preform a cooling of the intake air without the need for moving parts or complex machinery although the effect is not entirely efficient

-   How

    -   The white fields reduce the temperature of air flowing through them each a small amount
    -   The red field prevents dust or water passing through it as to avoid ice caking the equipment
    -   A catch pit below the entry field captures water and dust

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Coolant fields Ray of frost 0<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Seals -- Wind wall 3<sup>rd</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Ray of frost (Command 1800 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 675
    -   Wind Wall (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) = 27000
    -   Total = 27675

-   Duration

    -   28 Days to produce
    -   224 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $2,767,500
    -   AURII - $8,302,500

#### Atmospheric Injectors

-   What

    -   Large extendable conduits that line up exactly with the couplers on the bottom of the anchor

-   Where

    -   Just beside the levitation array that keeps the anchor levitated
    -   A secondary set is mounted on the other cardinal points of the anchor\'s center

-   Why

    -   These, once coupled, provide air to the extradimensional space
    -   Dust increases the amount of processing on the part of the metasentient and so coolant air is used as it is heavily filtered.

-   How

    -   Merely mechanical air pumps and sealed conduits
    -   The conduits are strengthened against planar stress and are quite thick
    -   The air is sourced from the end of the air coolant run and is generally composed of cool dry air while the gate is operating

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Injectors -- Purify food & drink 0<sup>th</sup> clr, Dimension door 4<sup>th</sup> wiz, water breathing 3rd
    -   Reinforcing -- Mage armor 1<sup>st</sup>

-   Breakdown

    -   Purify Food and Drink (Command 1800 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 150
    -   Dimension Door (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) = 16800
    -   Water Breathing (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 6750
    -   Mage Armor (Command 1800 x 1 x 1) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 900
    -   Total = 24600

-   Duration

    -   25 Days to produce
    -   200 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $2,460,000
    -   AURII - $7,380,000

#### Control Apparatus

-   What

    -   Two bi-level areas covered in dials, readouts, and various controls
    -   the lower section is caged and glass while the upper protected by glass
    -   A ladder leads down into the lower section of the pit.

-   Where

    -   At opposing corners to the pit

-   Why

    -   These serve as the primary control method of the conjugate gate
    -   Failure of the conjugate gate\'s internal space due to damage or defect exterminates everything currently in transit so two are given for redundancy

-   How

    -   Composed of enermechanics and a ghostgear matrix coupled to mundane machinery it provides a control and observation method in which to operate the gate.

##### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Glass protective wall - Wall of ice (glass) 4<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Machinery coupling -- unseen servant 1<sup>st</sup> wiz
    -   Physical Sensors -- Status 2<sup>nd</sup> Clr, locate object 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz, detect plants and animals 1<sup>st</sup> drd, locate creature 4<sup>th</sup> wiz
    -   Energy Sensors -- Arcane Sight, Greater 7<sup>th</sup> wiz, detect magic 0<sup>th</sup> wiz, Clairaudience/Clairvoyance 3<sup>rd</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Wall of ice (glass) (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) / (5/1 use per day) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 5040
    -   Unseen Servant (Continuous 2000 x 1 x 1) x 1 (Duration) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1000
    -   Status (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1350
    -   Locate Object (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1350
    -   Detect Plants and animals (Command 1800 x 1 x 1) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 225
    -   Locate Creature (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.25 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 9450
    -   Arcane Sight, Greater (Command 1800 x 7 x 13) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) = 54600
    -   Detect Magic (Command 1800 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 150
    -   Clairaudience/Clairvoyance (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 4500
    -   Total = 77665

-   Duration

    -   78 Days to produce
    -   624 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   USD - $7,766,500
    -   AURII - $23,299,500

Construction Materials
----------------------

### Doppelganger Metal

-   What

    -   When inert, a grayish red ingot with a liquid sheen
    -   When separated from the source forms a liquid metal slime
    -   Formed constructs have a scale model of their intended forms inside or crystalline spheres containing blueprints of complex parts

-   Where

    -   Used in parts along load bearing structures in hostile environments or for safer failure modes

-   Why

    -   These parts will distend in a regular fashion without snapping or gaining cracks up to their breaking point
    -   Their tolerant forms will apply an even pressure up to their source material\'s resistant forces but are essentially an amorphous high-strength liquid
    -   If distended they will resume normal form once the pressure that exceeds their ductile force is removed so they can be used in critical parts that must maintain integrity
    -   If damaged they can repair themselves with shadowstuff until additional metal in slime form is applied to them effectively doubling the material\'s hit points until all the metal is damaged and inaccessible though this limits its hardness.

-   How

    -   They are a liquid metal construct that can take on networks of solid crystalline networks throughout the amorphous solid
    -   Structure of the solid support networks is determined by the material\'s natural crystalline state

#### Rules

-   The process to transmute this material can only be done on metals.
-   Any item created with this material if sundered will be reduced to multiple metallic slimes that seek each other out to reform.
-   Individual shards will seek out the main solid portion to rejoin the whole.
-   An item in its fluid form will reconstitute 1d6+1 rounds after the majority of material is present in a single slime.
-   Items reformed from only part of the material have half its current hardness until the item is touched to the missing slimes.
-   Should an incomplete item with reduced hardness deal more than twice its hardness in damage it will also take subdual damage equal to the dealt damage minus its current hardness
-   Base hardness of the metal is half the hardness of its original metal but twice its HP per inch of thickness
-   Metal in slime form is immune to bludgeoning and piercing damage and is split in parts when it takes slashing damage though they cannot themselves do damage.
-   Cold damage renders them an inert solid until approaching room temperature Though heat damage can destroy the templates stored inside the fluid thus destroying the slime.
-   Destroyed slimes decompose into a metal dust cloud of the base type and depending on the metal used if destroyed by fire may explode.

#### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Enchantment - Shadow Conjuration,greater 4<sup>th</sup> wiz, Alter Self 2<sup>nd</sup> wiz
    -   Material - Animate Object 6<sup>th</sup> wiz, permanency 5<sup>th</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Shadow Conjuration (Command 1800 x 4 x 7) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) = 25200
    -   Animate Object (Single use, spell completion 25 x 6 x 11) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 413
    -   Permanency (Single use, spell completion 25 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 3788
    -   Alter Self (Continuous 2000 x 2 x 3) x 1.5 (Duration) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 6750
    -   Total = 36151

-   Duration

    -   36 Days to produce
    -   288 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   produces 100 lbs of material (361.51 GP/lb)
    -   USD - $3,615,100 (+28$/lb)
    -   AURII - $10,845,300.00 (+81$/lb)

### Ceramic Self-mending Foundation Plates

-   What

    -   Flat tan ceramic plates with shadesteel backing
    -   The steel itself does not reflect weak light sources and is flat black otherwise
    -   Can be made with steel, copper, lead, aluminum, or gold.
    -   Thicker plates collect more energy enabling a much thicker surface layer

-   Where

    -   Used primarily in conduits, foundations, and other parts that do not and should not move

-   Why

    -   Will self-assemble a coating from ambient dust particulate or dirt to dimensions predefined by the shadesteel backing
    -   Shadesteel backing is coterminous with the shadow and ethereal planes as to gather energy from outside the foundation directly
    -   The flexible runic crafting holds continuity even if deformed as to maintain a thickness and strength despite pressure or impact damage
    -   If the shadesteel is punctured the runic plate will cease self-repair
    -   Used in areas that are difficult to access in order to replace parts or do not regularly experience forces but still must retain pressure in emergencies

-   How

    -   The backing is the primary charge plate used to gather energy to build the ceramic plate from.
    -   Once the backing is complete the plate assembles whatever inorganic material is available in atmospheric dust into a solid ceramic that sticks to the plate.
    -   The transitive plates are directly connected material with the prime but have separate enchantments that collect shadow energy and store the charge in the ethereal during active use.

#### Rules

-   Robust, these plates have regeneration 2 for purposes of material damage
-   The plate has +2 hardness of the metal used to create them
-   Shadow or ethereal creatures cannot pass the material without first breaching it.
-   Partly supported by its transitive join this material is a quarter lighter than it would be otherwise
-   Not useful as armor or other motile parts since it has high spatial inertia, to move the plate from its location requires a strength check DC 10+5 per 6" of thickness regardless of which plane the force is applied to.
-   In normal gravity the plate falls as if under the effect of feather fall and in low gravity will not move without an outside force.

#### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Material -- Darkness 2<sup>nd</sup>, Fabricate 5<sup>th</sup>, Vampiric touch 3<sup>rd</sup>
    -   Power source/intellect - Darkness 2<sup>th</sup> wiz,unseen servant 1<sup>st</sup> wiz
    -   Enchantment - Mending 0<sup>th</sup> wiz, Major Creation 5<sup>th</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Darkness (Single use, spell completion 25 x 2 x 3) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 25
    -   Fabricate (Single use, spell completion 25 x 5 x 9) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 188
    -   Vampiric Touch (Single use, spell completion 25 x 3 x 5) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 63
    -   Unseen Servant (Continuous 2000 x 1 x 1) x 1 (Duration) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 500
    -   Major Creation (Command 1800 x 5 x 9) / (5/1 use per day) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) = 5400
    -   Mending (Continuous 2000 x 1 x 1) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 500
    -   Total = 6676 gold

-   Duration

    -   6.7 Days to produce
    -   53.6 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   Produces ~40 2.5\'x2.5\'x6" tiles (166.9 gold/tile)
    -   USD - $667,600 ($16690/tile)
    -   AURII - $2,002,800 ($50070/tile)

### Shadesteel Plates

-   What

    -   A plate that does not reflect light as shadowstuff made real with a second shadows of the physical object that have a tactile substance

-   Where

    -   Used in moving equipment that needs to restrain coterminous forces or prevent transmission of energies

-   Why

    -   Attempted passage of beings or energy on coterminous planes causes a repellant and disruptive discharge.
    -   Retains positive energy without reacting with it since the material on the prime is only quasi-matter.
    -   Strengthens the material to the interference from arcane forces in that it is conducted and powered across three separate planes.
    -   The ethereal plate is ablative to spirits attempting to force their way through and discharges currently stored energy when impacted

-   How

    -   The metal plate in the shadow plane is altered by the conjuration to force a coterminous plate in the prime material plane
    -   The plate also attracts collected energy into its volume in the ethereal plane to inhibit the passage of ethereal undead

#### Rules

-   If an ethereal creature attempts to pass through the tile it will take a round per inch of thickness and while in the material the spirit will take damage
-   The damage this plate deals is 1d6 per inch of thickness per rounds spent charging (up to 3 rounds without discharging) Ex: a 2" thick plate charged for 3 rounds would cause 6d6 damage the first round and 2d6 the next round.
-   Raw mana can neither pass this material nor interact with it for damage as it the material on the prime is not entirely matter

#### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Shadow Conjuration, Disrupt undead, Deeper darkness, Death Ward, mending

-   Breakdown

    -   Deeper Darkness (Single use, spell completion 25 x 3 x 5) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 63
    -   Death Ward (Single use, spell completion 25 x 4 x 7) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 117
    -   Shadow Conjuration (Single use, spell completion 25 x 4 x 7) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 117
    -   Disrupt undead (Continuous 2000 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 375
    -   Mending (Continuous 2000 x 1 x 1) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) = 1000
    -   Total = 1672

-   Duration

    -   1.7 Days to produce
    -   13.6 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   Produces 4 5\'x5\'x1" metal plate (418 gold/plate)
    -   USD - $167,200 (41800$ each)
    -   AURII - $501,600 (125400$ each)

### Glyph Ablative Plating

-   What

    -   large or small tiles sporting etchings for particular glyphs
    -   Often used in layers as there is variance in the raw mana

-   Where

    -   These are used on reinforced surfaces exposed to corrupting effects.

-   Why

    -   The tiles ensure that the corrupting effects of raw mana does not damage reinforced walls or sensitive materials behind them.

-   How

    -   Each tile is set to a specific glyph type as a grounding node and connected through a rack mounts that maintain various grounding points around the site.
    -   The consumable tile can resist the passage of raw mana

#### Rules

-   Raw mana cannot pass this material in any coterminous planes though it can flow around.
-   Strength and hardness of worked stone

#### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Material: Fabricate, mordenkin\'s disjunction, Consecrate
    -   Enchantment: Greater dispel magic, Arcane sight, read magic

-   Breakdown

    -   Fabricate (Single use, spell completion 25 x 5 x 9) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 563
    -   Mordenkin\'s disjunction (Single use, spell completion 25 x 9 x 17) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1913
    -   Consecrate (Single use, spell completion 25 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 75
    -   Dispel magic (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) = 9000
    -   Arcane Sight (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) = 9000
    -   Read Magic (Command 1800 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 150

-   Duration

    -   20.7 Days to produce
    -   165.6 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   Produces 200 5\' x 5\' x 1\' plates for use in containment liners or 3200 15" x 15" x 1" tiles for linings
    -   USD - $2,070,100 ($10351/5\' plate, $647/15" plate)
    -   AURII - $6,210,300 ($31052/5\' plate, $1941/15" plate)

### Amorphous weave

-   What

    -   Minute gelatinous fibers
    -   Small glass spheres or coins float within the mass

-   Where

    -   This substance is normally used for armors or protective suits

-   Why

    -   Shape changing substance that mimics the texture and shape of a form determined at its creation
    -   Adapts predictably to deviations in size or structure of its intended wearer
    -   Fitting suit that does not restrict movement or have to be fitted to its wearer
    -   Solid objects or tools can be mounted to float within or on the surface without having to introduce gaps from attachment points.

-   How

    -   The fibers as a whole represent a magic item but maintain their cohesion much like small worms.
    -   Small copies of the suit\'s blueprint are present within the suit\'s mass. If all are destroyed the form will no longer retain shape

#### Rules

-   Cannot be used to make structures or weapons
-   Water or air pressure: ignores 1 point of water pressure damage per point of AC for armor made of this substance as long as it completely covers the body
-   Damage does not affect the item\'s ability to protect from water or air pressure as it seals the hole instantly even if pierced
-   Clothes made from this substance have +1 AC
-   Wearable objects of this substance lose 1 point of AC for every two feet taller the wearer is compared to the form used in creation as the material gets thinner. If this brings the total AC below 0 then the armor cannot be worn and will return to an amorphous pile instead.
-   Armor or clothing of this substance gains DR 2/piercing or slashing
-   Unusually shaped creatures can wear this armor as long as they are of the same category as the intended form

#### Cost

-   Parts

    -   Material: Minor creation 4<sup>th</sup> wiz, Mage armor 1<sup>st</sup> wiz, Disguise Self 1<sup>st</sup> wiz

-   Breakdown

    -   Minor Creation (Single use, spell completion 25 x 4 x 7) = 700
    -   Mage armor (Single use, spell completion 25 x 1 x 1) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 19
    -   Disguise Self (Single use, spell completion 25 x 1 x 1) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 19
    -   Total = 738 GP

-   Duration

    -   0.25 Days to produce
    -   2 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   Makes 5 lbs (147.6 GP/lb)
    -   USD - $14,760 / lb
    -   AURII - $44,280 / lb

### Sandmorph

-   What

    -   Very small glass beads that form a thick layer with a rubbery feel to the surface
    -   External plates and internal metal braces as well as a thick metal boot sole for grip.

-   Where

    -   Used in areas hostile to unprotected human life or even magical automatons
    -   Found in large barrels to contain the large volume generally used for suits.

-   Why

    -   The glass material is more chemically and physically robust which allows for a greater environmental tolerance

-   How

    -   The

-   Spell bases for cost calculation

    -   Material - Major Creation, Barkskin, mage armor, disguise self, bull strength

#### Rules

-   Cannot be used to make structures or weapons
-   Ignores 2 points of water or air pressure damage per point of AC for armor made of this substance as long as it completely covers the body
-   Damage does not affect the item\'s ability to protect from water or air pressure as it seals the hole instantly even if pierced
-   Armor made of this substance has a damage resistance based on the thickness inherited from armor transmuted for form regardless of the source armor\'s original material: Light armor, DR 1/Piercing; Medium armor, DR 3/Piercing; and heavy armor, DR 5/Piercing
-   Armor also receives an additional -2 to max dex and armor check penalty due to its bulk
-   Armor gains -1 to its AC bonus and damage resistance for every two feet the wearer is larger than the originally created size
-   Wearers one size category smaller than the originally created size cannot wear the armor as it will be rendered too thick to move

#### Cost

-   Breakdown

    -   Major Creation (Single use, spell completion 25 x 5 x 9) = 1125
    -   Mage armor (Single use, spell completion 25 x 1 x 1) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 6
    -   Barkskin (Single use, spell completion 25 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 56
    -   Disguise self (Single use, spell completion 25 x 1 x 1) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 13
    -   Total = 1200 GP

-   Duration

    -   1.2 Days to produce
    -   9.6 Man-hours to produce

-   $ Cost

    -   Produces 5 lbs of material (240GP/lb)
    -   USD - $120,000 ($24000/lb)
    -   AURII - $360,000 ($72000/lb)

Individual Tools
----------------

### Glyphsure Armor

-   What

    -   A full body suit for mages as a layer of blue threads that flows skin tight over an individual\'s surface
    -   Has a rigid backpack with a canister full of coin-shaped cells with a thin glove

-   Why

    -   The suit size is not be regulated by dimension but rather physical volume so it need not be designed to individuals
    -   As mages require access to the weave but resistance to ambient raw magic present near specific artifice this armor will provide a defensive wall
    -   Charges abstract the necessary energy of resisting the raw elemental force so that the mage may concentrate freely without negating their protection if concentration is disrupted.
    -   Relying on the local source of mana while mired in Raw magical energy is unwise so the suit must carry its own power supply.
    -   Air inside the faceplate is circulated and clean as much to prevent the mage from inhaling raw magic energy or any resulting vapors from the environment

-   How

    -   Charges in the suit backpack power it.
    -   Mitigates environmental stresses by absorbing stress like temperature or air pressure so the mage is in ideal and comfortable conditions
    -   The suit normalizes the weave for the caster eliminating variance in casting through natural interference
    -   An amorphous mouthpiece allows air to filter in and out while preventing foreign matter or energy to pass (though it does not enable breathing underwater)
    -   Solid crystal faceplate enables the read magic spell twice a day while looking through it
    -   The suit offsets its own weight and clings skin-tight thus causes no disturbance to the hand-gestures used in spells

#### Item

-   Robe: AC +1, Armor check penalty 0, Arcane spell failure chance 0%
-   Required Class: Mage
-   Cold Weather Outfit 8g
-   Materials 1960g Amorphous weave +1 AC, max Dex +6, DR 2 / piercing or slashing

#### Qualities

-   Mage is not affected by wild magic areas as long as they have sufficient charges in the suit
-   As its intended function is symbiosis with a mage once a suit is worn by a magic user it won\'t operate with any other user (100% arcane failure)
-   The mage\'s condition is not affected by ambient temperature but remains subject to direct elemental damage effects
-   Hoppers in a flat solid backpack allow for charges to be inserted to power the suit.
-   The user can read magic through the crystal faceplate twice a day
-   Using the raw mana resistance depletes a full mana cell and adds 30 minutes of protection which can be started and stopped at will
-   Maintaining the suit\'s functions for 24 hours consumes a light mana cell though partly depleted mana cells activated in this purpose can still be used for their total remaining duration.
-   The suit must have at least one unused or active burn charge in it to function.

#### Powers

-   Endure elements (Continuous 2000 x 1 x 1) x 0.5 (Duration) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 375
-   Read Magic (Command 1800 x 0.5 x 1) / (5/2 use per day) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 90
-   Mage Hand (Command 1800 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 225
-   Resist Energy (Raw Magic) (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) = 5400
-   Arcane Mark (Single use, use activated 50 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 13

#### Cost

-   Total = 6103 x .6 (Class/item restricted) + 1968 (Materials cost) = 5629.8USD - $1,048,980.00
-   USD - $562,980
-   AURII - $1,688,940

#### Duration

-   5.6 Days to produce
-   44.8 Man-hours to produce

### heavy Environment Suit

-   What

    -   A large canister of colored sand and rigid parts contained in a large canister
    -   When put on the suit is very thick and the wearer looks much like an amorphous humanoid coated in sand and ceramic plating
    -   Metal braces on the joints help distribute and resist forces that would damage them.
    -   Ceramic plates on sensitive areas increase the distribution of force against slashing attacks.

-   Why

    -   Provides excellent environmental tolerance to laborers for a wide variety of situations
    -   Though not suited for hostile arcane environments they serve a different role in protecting laborers from erratic environments outside these areas
    -   The density as well as depth of the suit\'s individual magical effects and the difficulty of hand movement makes it nearly impossible for magic users to function

-   How

    -   The particles that make up this suit are very small information spheres that contain triggers and patterns that control their properties and positions
    -   Each particle spreads until at least one or more of their properties are met so sunder attempts or damage directly to the armor slowly repairs itself
    -   Created in aggregate as a magical item from the individual spheres and damaged if mass created for one suit is separated from its solid parts
    -   Unbound sandmorph not including solid parts automatically integrates into a suit if it is of the exact same type
    -   As it is made of the individual particles any damage is flowed around
    -   The material will also flow back together as an obstruction leaves to eliminate any gaps that would cause damage from external pressure

#### Item

-   Masterwork Sandmorph Chainmail 200g: +7 AC, Max Dex 0, armor check penalty -6, arcane spell failure chance 60%
-   Materials: 40 lb sandmorph, 9600 GP

#### Rules

-   The suit is 1 inch thick for light armor, 2 inches thick for medium armor, and 4 inches thick for heavy armor. This affects the armor\'s HP As per the rules for the material of the original item transmuted into sandmorph
-   DR 5/Piercing
-   Resist (Radiation) 10
-   Message at will
-   Requires heavy mana cell charges for radiation resistance
-   Requires light mana charges for air supply
-   Maintaining the suit\'s functions for 12 hours consumes a light mana cell
-   A light mana cell activated for the air supply lasts for 24 hours and can the effect be suspended or resumed at will until the duration elapses.

#### Qualities

-   Wearer is unaffected by ambient temperature
-   Resistant to radiation, Activating a charge for this function provides 2 hours of protection that can be enabled or disabled at will
-   Not subject to effects that require breathing the air
-   Can support its own weight but does not increase strength of the wearer so for purposes of encumbrance counts as one size category lower than the starting armor, light armor becomes unencumbered, medium becomes light, and heavy armor becomes medium armor.
-   The density of individually active magical subunits makes it very difficult for a mage to make use of their abilities
-   Force is distributed among the subunits and so is distributed across four times the area of the impact

#### Cost

-   Suit: Endure elements, Resist Energy, message, water breathing, bull strength
-   Breakdown

    -   Endure Elements (Command 1800 x 1 x 1) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 300
    -   Resist energy (radiation) (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) x 0.75 (Similar SP) = 4050
    -   Message (Continuous 2000 x 0.5 x 1) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 167
    -   Water Breathing (Command 1800 x 3 x 5) x 0.5 (Combined Effect) = 13500
    -   Bull Strength (Command 1800 x 2 x 3) x 0.33 (Combined Effect) x 0.5 (Similar SP) = 1800

-   $ Cost

    -   Total = 19817 + 9800 (Materials cost) = 29617
    -   USD - $2,961,700
    -   AURII - $8,885,100

-   Duration

    -   29.6 Days to produce
    -   236.8 Man-hours to produce

### Mana Cell, Light

-   Makes 50 small glass coins that turn gray when expended.
-   Glow cyan when charged
-   Once created a whole set of 50 depleted batteries can be recharged for 50% of their creation price
-   Partly depleted mana cells activated in a purpose can still be used for their total remaining duration for the original effect.

#### Cost

-   Breakdown

    -   Mana Cell, Light (50 charges 750 x 1 x 1) = 750
    -   Total = 750 x .6 (Class/item restricted) = 450
    -   USD - $45,000 ($900/cell)
    -   AURII - $135,000 ($2700/cell)

-   Duration

    -   0.5 Days to produce
    -   4 Man-hours to produce

### Mana cell, Heavy

-   Makes 50 small glass coins that turn to dust when used.
-   Glow a bright blue when charged
-   Partly depleted mana cells activated in a purpose can still be used for their total remaining duration for the original effect.\\

#### Cost

-   Breakdown

    -   Mana Cell, Heavy (50 charges 750 x 3 x 5) = 11250
    -   Total = 11250 x .6 (Class/item restricted) = 6750
    -   USD - $675,000 ($13500/cell)
    -   AURII - $2,025,000 ($40500/cell)

-   Duration

    -   6.8 Days to produce
    -   54.4 Man-hours to produce

Glossary
--------

### Ashen

-   Ashen is matter that has been transmuted into naturally negative-aligned shadowstuff that is extremely compressible, exerts little pressure, and is stable over long distances when not depleted.
-   The material when stable and energy-rich looks a great deal like flowing ashes as per its name.
-   Depleted ashen has already begun to revert to stable matter and is fluctuating a great deal. This gives the material a multicolored effect as well as the taking on a much more solid and ordered appearance.
-   Most necromantic artifice of high consumption uses this material as fuel for creating glyphs for operation.
-   When the fuel is spent by glyph and energy removed ashen becomes neutrally aligned and unstable.
-   In time the material will return to its proper state if not reduced by the artifice itself.
-   Ashen after consumption, and reduction to normal state, combines in any number of ways to be often of no relation to its original material though always of equal mass.
-   Waste ashen if not dealt with can be violently toxic as an effluent though it rarely produces heavy elements such as gold or lead favoring materials with much less density.
-   Should a burst usage of ashen occur very heavy elements can be produced by dense ashen material in extremely problematic quantities.

### Ashen Slag

-   Some ashen produced from materials already magical, possessing strong inherent characteristics, alchemical reagents, living creatures, or simply too dense for the size of ashen works used will be reduced to a clay like gray slag at the bottom of the chamber.
-   With no viscosity ashen slag will freely climb up the surfaces of a container, especially the lower walls of the ashen works, so retaining fields must halt its advance.

### Blowout

-   The demiurge controls the intake of ashen based on the draw of the other artifice connected to it. The demiurge must be able to withstand the arcane pressures generated by the draw.
-   Should the demiurge exceed a safe beat rate and the fields collapse all of the matter, positive energy, negative energy, and ashen inside the core will decompose into heat and light in an explosion
-   Safety mechanisms shift the entire room into the ethereal plane should a blowout occur and though it will annihilate anything entirely on the ethereal plane it will leave most physical matter and personnel untouched
-   The light from the cotangent explosion still has a strong risk of blindness at the detonation point and any looking directly at the point of immolation.

### Circles

-   The power required for a given spell are sorted into circles
-   All circles are measured in terms of 0th level spells which are the least powered stable base glyph size
-   Each circle above 0th is four times as much energy as the previous
-   Spells are categorized by a circle above the closest energy level they exceed.

### Enermehanics

-   The process of using magical items as discrete components to preform a larger whole of an effect
-   The creation of these devices enables artificers to evade Mystra\'s limit as well as creating them easier at scale without monolithic effort
-   Binding of mechanical and magical principles to allow for some mundane pieces of artifice to be created by those untrained in the Art.

### Ghostgears

-   Metal gears enchanted to process a certain task or logic
-   Interchangeable and self-arranging they align to the pattern of engraved glyph plates
-   In a mechanical sense they only join as to keep synchronization with the local group for interfacing with other groups.
-   Once integrated into any one matrix all ghostgears can connect with any other ghostgear regardless of physical proximity as long as they mount properly
-   Ghostgears actually on the ethereal plane primarily deal in logical and information flow between individual matrix and local ghostgear groups

### Glyph

-   These are representative patterns within raw mana that mages organize to create specific effects (spells) to manifest into the world.
-   Different methods are used by different casters to achieve their ends:

    -   Divine casters retrieve glyphs from their patron whom deposits them on behalf of the caster
    -   Nature casters link together glyphs already present in living things to create their effects upon pulling the string
    -   Wizards or other mages create glyphs or consume them from materials that use them in order to produce groups of glyphs within the weave that represents their intended spell
    -   Sorcerers use glyphs born within them to produce effects within their world by imposing themselves upon the weave.

### Glyph, Base 

-   Form general use amounts of raw mana for use in artifice
-   Will free float in a properly insulated container that provides no draw
-   Will not consolidate without force but keep integrity longer without a maintaining force or through interfering forces

### Glyph, Refined

-   Nearly identical but contain subsets of glyphs for use in specific equipment
-   More efficiently used than generic pools of base glyphs for spell pools
-   Refined glyphs will self-organize with like glyphs and fill all orbits higher them themselves, merging in the process.
-   Orbit with a speed related to the highest power level they can achieve
-   Sensitive to changes in environment and corruption from external glyphs they have a poor duration outside protected containment.

### Glyph Plate

-   Glass plates, or sapphire if equipment operating higher circle enermechanics, that defines and regulates the of ghost gears
-   Serve as blueprints for computational self-assembly of a needed function with given requirements and one is manifested nearby as a locus for placement by teleportation.
-   Also pieces of active enermechanics they sometimes regulate synchronization and some operational logic of the local group applied at scale.

### Ley lines

-   Ley lines are a side effect of the weave inducing the even distribution of glyphs across its extents.
-   Living things or primordial effects contribute the glyphs they are composed of to the weave whom receives them through the ley lines.

### Mana Burn

-   Should more glyphs be removed from the ley than the ley lines can freely sustain within the ethereal plane the remaining glyphs will spill over into the prime and react with local matter.
-   This can produce an extreme quantity of temporary wild magic and if enough disturbance occurs the ley line may become untenable and snap.
-   This group of effects, wholly known as mana burn, can manifest as dead magic areas, wild magic areas, prime wells, spellfire ignition, and other rarer effects.

### Matrix, Ghostgear

-   These large reinforced boxes ensure an optimal environment for ghostgears to be teleported into within their confines.
-   The matrix floor is lined with scanning and targeting equipment as well as a mounted teleportation rack.

### Mend Crystals

-   These mend small cracks that form in ceramic or metal solids over time.
-   Microscopic cracks or oxidizing causes the crystal to activate and undo the damage or corrosion.
-   Generally a color of forest green they have flat multicolored images floating in them.

### Mote

-   A formed unit of magic energy that has not yet been properly rectified by artifice for long term-storage in the sourcer
-   Unable to be properly used for normal artifice or spells it still will conduct through conduit

### Mote, Thermal

-   Elemental energy can be gathered by similarly constructed equipment that produces normal motes
-   A normal seat receives the mote so that mechanical methods can absorb the heat.

### Prime Material Plane

-   This is in reference to the plane(s) where the majority of matter is located or to where all other coterminous planes reference.

### Quasimagical Item

-   Mythals enable the creation of quasimagical items keyed to a specific mythal
-   This cheapens their creation by a vast magnitude but limits the area they can be employed in
-   Any Mythal with an anchor can be used in this fashion but the items must be created within its borders
-   The mages creating the mythal bound item require a quarter less total XP cost spread among them evenly
-   25% less total cost for each additional mage within two levels of each other taking part in its creation to a maximum of 2 additional mages.
-   The bonus is 5% less per mage for each level the other mages are from the highest level mage. Example: 1st caster, 10th (25%), 2nd caster 6th (5%), 3rd caster 8th (15%)
-   An equal amount of items as mages must be made.
-   A mythal-bound item fails when brought outside the border of the mythal and resumes functionality once returned to the correct area.

### Seats

-   These are small divots or ritual circles that base glyph, mote, or refined glyphs rest while they are acted upon or consumed by artifice.
-   The more seats an artifice has the higher a moment of draw it can handle in comparison to being idle.
-   Seats can be of varied sizes to provide power to different circles of spells.

### Spellfire Ignition

-   Ley lines that have been frayed by overuse may vent raw mana directly into the prime.
-   This effect produces a weak silver flame that ignites whatever flammable matter it touches and disjoins magic items.
-   Large conventional fires that result often redirect the flow of magic and inherently repair the damaged area by re-balancing it.

### Transmutation tolerance

-   When ashen is reduced back into normal matter the matter becomes less useful to the demiurge as it lacks any significant amount of material entropy.
-   Also, the material itself gains a resistance to being transmuted in this specific manner though not in a general sense of transmuting the matter.
-   Once the material has been conventionally transformed either by time or some other manner it gains entropy and thus becomes useful again.
-   Transmutation tolerance decreases over time and is dependent on how much work or conventional change is done to it afterward.

### Time Flux

-   Variation in the rate of time flow inside the same fixed volume
-   As the rate of time changes the elemental portions of matter begin to differ in their observation of each other
-   Elemental particles that cease to observe the proper state to remain joined do not remain joined thus causing damage to material from time flux.

### Well, Prime

-   Areas where a ley well is forming on the prime due to extreme corruption of the ethereal plane fabric caused by mana burn.
-   As the prime is more stable due to corruption of normal ethereal paths the raw mana forms a well, though still located primarily in the ethereal, that partially manifests into the prime.
-   The portion exposed to the prime will scatter glyphs of spell groups into the area making it not a true source of wild magic but with similar effects.
-   Wild magic users often find the prime wells too \'impure\' to be controlled to productive ends.
-   Prime wells can be repaired in time or by wish spells just as dead magic areas can.
-   Severe mana burn can produce Prime wells that cascade then burn themselves out by igniting everything in them at once.
-   Prime well cascades can cause mass devastation in a conflagration that completely changes the natural state of large areas as well as snapping every ley line in that area thus possibly destabilizing other ley wells.
-   Such places experiencing a cascade, now dead to magic, can still be chaotic with raw elements for a time but usually stabilize into swamps or wastelands that eventually recover.

### Well, Ley

-   Great amounts of passing glyphs from areas of strong magic sources will tend to pool into vast sources of raw mana where many ley lines pass nearby.
-   This raw mana is extremely reactive and the wells are primarily manifested in the ethereal plane where glyphs travel with much less resistance.