# The red lady's children

#### Yuri, 3 Gan of the line

It is unusual to see trained and mindful new births so with the message
from the yellow following your hatching I suspect her doing somehow. You
will be under observation. However, as she has is at the best of times a
fanatic of Grandfather Teeth, I suggest taking many of her descriptions
in consideration of that fact. 

Nevertheless she has been with us in one order or another since our
birth and knows the most. Do not dwell long on her rambling fanaticism.
What concerns the Far and Deep is the line with our origins of concern
to the twitches for study. We find Grandfather teeth ignoring us most of
the time just to make killings through her to serve the path of at least
one of them. What the goal of this unprovoked killing is we have only
theories you are not ranked for and since I need all I can for the line
you are not to speak to her without at least a straight Gan present. 

I need remind you further that none of this is to be shared with any
other clans and it is against my better judgment that you be given her
message at all. I suggest you calm yourselves and do not spend yourself
lightly or we may decide not to give you your rations. I need you as a
refined soldier not an incessant parade of yowling youth. Your point-gan
will instruct you further on operational security and inform you to
which part-gan you are assigned for training. I have also asked a twitch
to comment for completeness and he will comment on the mundane details.

## Statistics

  - **+2 Constitution -2 Wisdom -2 Intelligence**, while they are a
    hardy race as a group their mindset can be obstinate and mired in
    instinct.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Small:** As a Small creature, one of the red lady's children gain
    a +1 size bonus to Armor Class, a +1 size bonus on attack rolls, and
    a +4 size bonus on hide checks, but use smaller weapons than humans
    use, and their lifting and carrying limits are three-quarters of
    those of a Medium character.
  - **Outsider (native)** -- This race is native to their plane for
    better or worse. When they die their spirits are taken possession of
    by the machine to temporarily acquire the Lost template. As such
    they cannot be resurrected regardless of where they are unless the
    machine relinquishes control of that spirit first.
  - **Reincarnated **-- The species has become fully acclimated to
    indefinite periods of possession and eggs will not continue
    embryonic development without a possessing spirit. When a sentient
    creature recieving negative energy damage, negative levels, or
    ability damage within the last 24 hours dies inside of the artifact
    Kreen's plane it is trapped by the plane's construct Machine.
    Instead of becoming Lost the spirit will first be assigned to an egg
    of one of the orders of red lady's children to effect repair before
    employing the spirit as bits of necromantic machinery upon death.
    This allows the individual to recall its memories once mature enough
    to recognize something from its previous life. DC 25 int check for
    direct interaction with former family, DC 30 for previous long-term
    party members, DC 35 if encountering an important item from the
    previous life, and DC 40 if exposed to items with information
    closely associated with their previous life. +1 for each specific
    check that week within 5 of that check's DC. Only one check to
    remember per 24 hour period. Upon successfully making this check the
    character gains back a class level from their last life that they
    lost by being reborn and a portion of the memories they possessed
    however remembered only in the technical sense. There is a 10%
    chance that an individual will recover emotional content about a
    topic from their past life rather than just information. Once half
    the lost levels rounded down are recovered the remainder can never
    be regained. Characters that become epic level will never be
    reincarnated though Machine may choose to reincarnate spirits used
    as parts at any time thereafter if damaged by wear to begin the
    repair cycle anew. 
  - **Negative Energy Affinity (Ex) -** This race is a living
    non-sentient animal adapted to be possessed by an undead spirit.
    Spells that channel negative or positive energy interact at all
    times as if the race were undead and classes trained in their native
    environment wield inverted spells for instant conversion. (Such as
    the paladin's lay on hands doing negative damage, or the good
    cleric's healing spells being harm spells instead.) Alchemical or
    nonmagical healing functions normally. They cannot be resurrected
    directly: a wish spell must be used first to find and anchor the
    spirit in the body, assuming that the Machine has relinquished
    control of the target's spirit at all, then it can be properly
    resurrected.
  - **Living death (Su) **- Upon death the body will reanimate as a
    mindless zombie in 2d4 turns. Zombies created in this manner if
    above 6<sup>th</sup> level will cause their kills to rise in the
    same manner. These zombies wander continuously but return to the
    place where they died in regular intervals when the original being
    would have slept.
  - **Lightweight:** Weight is a quarter less as appropriate for a small
    creature. Their bones are carbon fiber layers which is light while
    not especially fragile and their muscles are highly efficient. This
    light weight provides them with their flight capacity with a smaller
    wingspan.
  - **Speed:** Base land speed is 30 feet, can glide at a speed of 20
    with a maneuverability of poor, and can swim with a speed of 10.
    Must be at most light encumbrance to fly or swim.
  - **Blindsight (200ft) -**The pitch black environment rendered sight
    nearly vestigial but an acute heat sense has augmented it in the
    detection of heat sources. This ability does not function through
    water, glass, or other transparent solids unless made of materials
    that are transparent to infrared. The character can only read if the
    writing is designed to provide thermal contrast, requiring also a
    heat source, if not in enough light to use their low light vision.
    Sudden sources of heat such as fireball or wall of fire disable this
    vision for 1 round per die of fire damage done in the immediate area
    (or per spell level in case of non-damaging fire effects) minus the
    number of continuous rounds spent readjusting to the source. The
    character will remain dazzled after adjusting as long as the strong
    heat source stays active. Gains a +4 circumstance bonus to survival
    to track warm-bodied creatures traveling across cooler materials
    that absorbed body heat.
  - **Low-light vision (20 ft):** Their visual acuity has suffered in
    the dark environment but is still used underwater where visibility
    is poor regardless. As long as there is a source of light nearby the
    character can see in this range with the remaining distance becoming
    a blur.
  - **Light blindness (Ex) **-- As their environment is almost pitch
    black bright light sources such as the sun or daylight spell remove
    their poor capacity for color vision as temporary blindness upon
    exposure to the light source. Though they could still employ their
    blindsight ability properly they remain dazzled.
  - **Hold breath (Ex)** -- Living in a water environment they developed
    a long diving time like aquatic reptiles. They can hold their breath
    for turns equal to three times their constitution score instead of
    rounds equal to twice. Gain +4 racial bonus versus checks against
    high water or air pressure.
  - **Tolerant constitution** -- As their food sources often include
    those who have died from disease or poison their biology is
    especially tolerant to tainted food as much as damage to their
    specialized containing spirit from the indefinite possession.
    Ability damage is always temporary, except for spells greater than
    or equal to half their highest class level which function normally.
    For non-leveled abilities or effects use HD of the caster instead.
    Natural healing of any ability damage takes three times as long.
    This effect does not affect ability damage due to natural aging.
  - **Bonus languages -** None. No other common languages exist in their
    small corner of reality so the race has no bonus languages.
  - **Godless -- **While natural and arcane magic is present there are
    no gods with access to the plane thus divine magic does not function
    in their native environment. All native divine classes such as
    clerics or paladins should be treated as neutral for purposes of
    abilities regardless of their actual alignment and should be
    considered to draw from the energies of their people unless taking
    up a devotion outside their plane.
  - **Automatic language -** Children's tongue, a mongrel language
    densely populated by stolen words and contextual grammar from a
    litany of half-remembered tongues though its writing has a distinct
    lean toward and accent of sylvan.
  - **Resist Negative Energy 3 -** Resistant to the effects of their
    home plane as well as its denizens using similar effects. Also not
    subject to any negatively-aligned plane's prevention of breeding.
  - **Native weapons:** 2 Claw 1d3 (primary), 1 Bite: 1d4, 2 Talon
    (feet) 1d3
  - **Favored class:** Monk -- With most members of their society
    concerned with day to day subsistence materials for weapons are
    scarce so combat has become largely sourced from natural weapons
    through disciplined unarmed fighting.
  - **ECL:** +2

#### Sindel, Overstudy for the order with the storm high

Our race was once all the order of the great red lady but over time some
groups left and over further time our paths differed too far that we
could no longer breed with each other. Thus the other orders share many
of the traditions of the order of the great red lady though our
societies do not resemble each other very closely. 

As in the Yellow's letter she has been birthed with each order since the
beginning of the keepers' record as are other entities in our recorded
knowledge. The great red lady herself is present as a powerful figure in
our history as an unusually shaped biped native to the place beyond the
world given a body that appears to be made of similar plant matter. The
yellow appears as a colorless breed compared of any order she is born to
though otherwise regular despite the altered coloration. However the
other orders have a poor recollection of the great red lady as she has
not had any known contact for some lives now perhaps caused by the
Yellow herself. Grandfather Teeth is at most of a secondary force to
give orders that the yellow appears to placate with rare if any
interaction to our orders here or in the place beyond the world. The
unknown entity that drives the order of the superior is a significant
force to be reckoned with but given it is so hard to talk to them we
know little. 

My order, with the storm high, travels to the place beyond the world as
to further the knowledge of our race as well as collate any artistry and
knowledge generated by its members. The far and deep primarily deal with
us as they need complex medicinal and practical items that we
manufacture and we in turn buy ganblood ingots for use in making
surgical tools or other things of interest to our explorers of the place
beyond the world. The yellow largely leaves trade lines alone as they
hold the line against the order of the superior and lend some stability
to internal squabbles among the leaders of various clutches. Otherwise
the Yellow is often a law unto herself, even though the orders have
generally understood territory, as she has repeatedly willed our
strongest to die giving her the rule of an order unto herself given we
are unable effect resistance.

Each order has a specialty due we think to the effort of grandfather
Teeth or perhaps merely as a result of our habits. Most can fly except
for the order of the superior. The order of the far and deep and the
order with the storm high are blue blooded. The order of the superior
may have a form of blue blood however it appears to be tainted and is
not applicable for use in the far and deep's tools. 

## Monastic Orders

The history of the red lady's children has resulted in a number of
different insular orders that have diverged over philosophical grounds
then on physical ones. As their ideas and bodies have diverged so have
their abilities and natures and each has developed a unique innate
ability. As a species they have not yet evolved psionics as a specific
talent however their natural abilities may be based from this power
source such as clerics pulling their abilities from the collective
conscious. Rare birth "Yellows" serve as consults to grandfather teeth
in having minor innate psionic communication powers induced by The Red
Lady's extended clairvoyance though they are always the same controlling
spirit, Nyx. Shamans usually provide leadership and advice to their
tribes though another leader tasked to daily affairs is also often
present in each group of related individuals. Each order has area(s) to
store eggs that are not yet developing and tends them at least casually.

### Order of the Great Red Lady

#### Neena, scribe of the yellow. Dictated by the yellow as His will.

Of all the orders I have been birthed to in His design I prefer this
order the most. Though the advice of His child was welcome in a time of
unbounded conflict and the order maintains her teachings to this day He
can never ignore those who live in His heart. As the red lady teaches
they must care for their world and in doing so care for each other. 

As I walk through the revered city at the top of his heart I see no
baseless injury or useless effort as in the other clans. Carefully
maintained gardens of plants sought out from His animals help care for
the health of their city. Even males are allowed work in the city to
benefit all. Though male ways are by nature violent the females ensure
they do not harm themselves or others in foolishness ensuring all are
happy and fertile. Some carve into the fungus walls and others use
things derived from His heart to make images in the light but these
flights of fancy are frowned upon as they have no use unlike tools to
heal others. Most still tend to the far and deep that will not honor His
wishes but it serves Him for them to do as they will and these of His
children are tolerant of them. 

#### Yuri, 3 Gan of the line

Most of our healers come from refugees of this order which makes its
current state of grave concern to maintaining the health of the line.
The yellow maintains an iron grip on its members and most of the
previous elected rulers that were attempting to broker a peace between
us and the order of the superior have ceased to be born or are
imprisoned in their egg warrens. The yellow's effort has successfully
derailed any of the many wise individuals of this order from assisting
us with understanding or engaging in the recovery of individuals lost
within the order of the superior. 

Their finest minds were able to repair the damage in thought as well as
in body done by being held prisoner by the order of the superior making
this loss of skill particularly debilitating to our advance into their
territory outside of fortified positions. Most of the previous election
process in which they honed these leaders, frequently in contact with
the Great Red Lady, has since been replaced by the Yellow's domination
which does not appear to affect Grandfather Teeth's plans in any
meaningful fashion. Our healers still in contact with the order say that
there has been no contact with the great red lady and we concur as there
is an apparent limitation to our listening posts instituted after
negotiation ended. 

This makes for a very unwelcome situation behind the line, given the
part-gans just ahead of it tend to be struck down by the yellow, but we
cannot abandon the city to its own devices so we can secure it without
risking the loss of a great deal of healing craft. Our keepers are hard
pressed to replicate their healing prowess or their bonding abilities
and if the order ever should decide to attack another it would prove
very difficult for us to respond. All of this we are sure the Yellow is
well aware of so the situation remains unresolved as she continues to
ignore our distaste of her treatment of the order.

#### Sindel, Overstudy for the order with the storm high

As it was said all our orders are born of this order. It is the oldest
and has the closest ties to the red lady. We are unsure at why the red
lady now appears to be unreachable but it likely is the Yellow's doing
as Grandfather Teeth never reacted strategically at the red lady's
presence. We are attempting to locate her in the place beyond the world
as to reestablish contact and force the yellow from the order but the
place beyond the world is immeasurably vast compared to our own and we
have little hope without a breakthrough. Their order appears to be
devolving into a cult-like despotism much like the order of the superior
and we have advised the far and deep that what little advantage we had
produced over the many lives of our orders has been summarily cut off by
the yellow's activity and we are at a devolving stalemate.

Their society was primarily concerned with contemplation and courting
the great red lady for knowledge with rule by fair vote of members of
their order. Though it is now a shallow hierarchy much of their gardens
and artisans are thankfully unaffected and we still at least can obtain
raw materials to make healing supplies for the line. The beauty of the
city's artisan-driven culture that produced these raw materials also
produced a large volume of contemplated works that we study to this day
as much as artwork that has proven difficult to rescue from the
shattering domination of the Yellow. 

We recover and reassemble what we can but although their ornate warrens
to the red lady is of particular importance, since it houses their eggs
and library, we are in little position to study their history with the
red lady without easy access. They do purchase what little pigments we
can replicate from their previous literature, through the aid of a
thriving low market, and get a good price for the pigments but most now
appear to create works brought out by warmth for its ease of
concealment. Entire homes are decorated in such reliefs and as time
passes a lot of pigmented works have been replaced with those written in
fire as pigmented and written knowledge is systematically purged.

#### Requirements:

  - Wisdom: 12
  - Alignment: Any Lawful
  - Class: Any, No psionics

#### Abilities:

  - **Subsistence (Sp)** -- (2/day) This ability perpetuates life in
    another living creature or plant despite hostile conditions. If
    meditating with a plant for 3 hours, fully submerged in clean
    freshwater with bit of their added blood (1 point of damage per
    level times number of size category of plant above fine), they can
    cause the plant to grow for an additional 12 hours per level in
    absence of any soil or nutrients. While a plant is still growing the
    character gains Fast Healing 1 which does not stack. During this
    period should the plant not remain mostly submerged or the caster
    die the plant will perish immediately. If targeting a dying creature
    or one that has died within the last 2 rounds, by instead sprinkling
    the caster's blood on the intended target and expending a sustained
    plant, concentrating on the target for 3 rounds the creature
    forcibly stabilize the target for the same period as the sustained
    plant would be. Though this ability can be used to stabilize the
    injured or "dead" natural healing, fast healing, and regeneration
    will not function for the sustained creature. Though a creature will
    never die during this period the creature must be magically or
    conventionally healed by skill check before the time elapses or
    immediately die. If the sustained target is not healed to bring them
    above their minimum HP before death the sustaining individual will
    gain 1 temporary negative level for each two class levels of the
    creature that dies. Characters or creatures sustained in this manner
    will not regain consciousness until they have recovered at least one
    hit point at which point the link ceases and the caster gains d6
    nonlethal damage per HD of the creature sustained. Multiple targets
    can be sustained but the negative consequences stack.
  - **Illiterate** -- Generally only shamans or ruling classes know how
    to read and write as lacking any formal education system the vast
    majority of the population cannot do so. They may spend two skill
    points to become literate in their own language (Children's tongue).
    Their language uses both alphabet and pictographs where grammar and
    vocabulary is similarly complex.
  - **Bonus skill points** -- This order is much more adaptable,
    accepting, and focused on general knowledge than its other peers and
    have little of a consistent skill set. The adherent gains 2 bonus
    skill points at first level and one additional skill point every
    other level thereafter.
  - **+2 WIS -1 STR** -- This order is much weaker than its other
    brethren though they are more keen to see the interrelationships of
    things and having tolerance toward the younger orders. Their
    leadership is still much more advanced and democratic despite their
    recent despotism and wisdom of age is prized over physical prowess.
  - **+2 racial bonus to profession(agriculture)** -- Order members are
    expected to maintain private gardens or at least a single plant.
    These are acquired from "glass" crayfish or from the order of the
    far and deep as a task to gain mature status among the group.
  - **+2 racial bonus to Healing** -- They have a deep knowledge of
    first aid from The Red Lady and the studies of the order with the
    storm high and have spread this knowledge to every child they train.

### Order of the Superior

#### Neena, scribe of the Yellow. Dictated by the Yellow as His will.

Madness dwells in the deep of His heart and not all of the children will
glorify His name. These are broken things that have forsaken Him and can
no longer be trusted. Still in His wisdom I have been born among them so
I may better understand them and I find them unrepentantly hedonist. A
drop of Grandfather teeth's madness dwelt within their minds too long
and now a whole segment of His children are concerned only with their
own need and that of the bad blood that fuels them. 

Some are born of control and to do so is as to harness a field of
frenzied gliders. Lusted and gibbering they tear at your heels if you
show mercy and do not punish; those behind climb over the weak to
exploit your mercy and take strength for themselves that they may
indulge further. As the far and deep deal with such madness so must we
all cut their disease free to further strengthen His body from the time
before us spent in starvation. In time they will subside but still we
persevere against the endless horde that would with lust consume
everything He has helped foster in the heart of darkness.

#### Yuri, 3 Gan of the line

The yellow knows more than she says but then so do I. As you prove
useful in holding back the endless stream of waste surging against the
line we will tell you more but it is as she says. We have tried to send
others to bring some sense to them and negotiate an agreement to keep to
their own territory but we only received back broken bodies and minds.
Those that came back were slavering, mutilated, and frenzied, and barely
recognized as the honed swords they once were. The end of war has been
removed as an option by the yellow.

They tell of regular torture to anything lower caste than themselves to
determine standing by what one can kill and take. We have a higher
standing among them than some of their own for our dedication on the
line but the mutilation they unleash on trespassers let alone each other
on a city scale is unthinkable. We are unsure how they maintain their
population at the amount of meat we carve out of them daily. 

As the Yellow said she has been of them before and we have killed her
multiple times in the space of a very few wakings. She is likely to hold
a grudge and has been less than forthcoming with tactical details of her
experience; I cannot repeat this enough, do not interact with her
without a higher gan present. Due to this rapid pace of apparent
breeding we cannot make any further headway toward their holdings with
the resources we have while accounting for the stream of bodies they
both throw at the line.

Nevertheless I have had personal contact with one of it that is
less-dangerous and will recount its ranting verbatim. This has not been
told to the twitch and should be considered a protection of the line.
They appear to have little distinction between members but we have had
very few talk to us and they are likely to merely be
insane.

#### Foot soldier of the Superior, as recorded by Yuri, 3 Gan of the line

Who am I? I'm a lot of someone that bores easily. I can't stand letting
myself go unstimulated\! How'd you like to be stimulated against that
pole like when I was conceived? It's story time sweet crack\!

Back when I was weak like you for too long and caught my eye I gave
myself what I deserved. My struggling made it even better as I forced a
mating on me on that pole and I gotta say I was screaming my head off\!
That's what I get for letting me get bored\! Some good old angry
mating\! Though all good things come at the end, don't they. I got back
and found me with my favorite lay and well a little murder never hurt me
any\!

With me stuck in my crack and tied to the pole I couldn't fight back
worth a damn even as I twitched from the pleasure. I think I might piss
me off again on purpose with some other weak me running around
somewhere. Though cutting the bits off made a world of a mess.

I should have let me go first but I'm such a greedy vacant brood. Hells
I'm just plain uncivil but the pit if I care either way\! Still I was
all warmed up, and tied up just the way I like it, so I couldn't let the
opportunity go to waste\! I was a bit heated I wouldn't untie me from
the pole but all hot and bothered tied to that pole it's not like I
cared for me to bother\! Ha\! I wanted to keep going though after the
ropes started to bite my wrists I also wanted to stop but that just
wouldn't do at all.

I beat me blue before I stopped pissing words about being a massive
linehead. I never did know when to shut my mouth so I crammed my second
favorite appendage down it for good measure. I almost enjoyed that
despite wanting to bite it off but I know I enjoyed doing it\! It's so
rare to have a moment for enjoying my crack without bothering myself
with cutting and bitching. I can't say I really liked being tied down
for so long but it was worth it getting a good opportunity to watch me
shut up and suffer. Always heats up my day\!

When I let me go it took a few more good poundings that I was stronger
so that I'd stay put to get some free labor in a while. Have to
establish which one of me is on the bottom\! Just how it's done. I hate
the waiting for me to make more me but I more hate having to run around
getting food where I'm likely to jump me\! Better to have the worthless
me do it\! I can always make more me\!

What a good incentive is a dash of good old hate\! I never liked the
idea of getting ordered around once the time came but I never did get
worked quietly without a good beating anyway. I made me cook my meals, I
made me clean my living space, and I pounded me till I knew which one of
us was on the pole\! That way when I was injured I bandaged my wounds
then got back to work\! Can't be weak on the top eh\! Can't be weak on
the bottom besides since if I stopped working and being paranoid I'd
beat me and staying in my bed being lazy is a good way to cut my
throat\!

It's all a careful little dance on top of worthless little people though
I still get to sleep in if I kill or mate into submission enough of me
nearby. It's something to work for\! I took the things I need from the
weak ones of me sometimes with just me and times I get together with me
to crush other groups of me\! Can't let the prey just pass me by it's
always fair game if I don't pay attention and I wouldn't have it any
other way\!

But when I got old I loved every minute tearing my prey apart when I
slept in when I shouldn't and wasn't too little to get away with it\!
You should try me sometime. I know I taste good just get on your knees.
No? Ha at least you listen and watch closely and I should have done the
same\! I have respect for strength. I didn't have to share anything with
me anymore and took my new living quarters\! I'd be so proud of little
me if I hadn't already suffocated me in my sleep long before then. Then
I'd tear my arm off for killing me quickly. Take your opportunity when
you see it I always say\!

Though maybe I was a little linehead and didn't know better and should
go kill me slowly to see. You know. I think I'll even let you watch. You
can even join in if you like but I'll still have my exotic little heat
afterward I can guarantee you that. Or I can just mate both corpses for
spurts and giggles since if I survive I just get to start all over
again\! It was just as fun all the other times for me to watch things
die.

#### Sindel, Overstudy for the order with the storm high

As it is told this order arose from some of the members of the order of
the red lady contacting another entity as yet unnamed and got the
attention of Grandfather Teeth for their attempt. This appears to have
altered their physical and mental states on extended contact with the
entity owing to the moving objects underneath their skin that appear on
carving open to be made of the same metal as the hearts of the
blue-bloods. The foreign objects have done no favors to intelligent
discourse and what few prisoners we have had access to appear to be
constantly under mental contact or stress by either Grandfather Teeth or
the unnamed entity. In the place beyond the world our explorers note
their order's partial presence though the lack of any such entity there.
This indicates they likely suffer at the hands of the children of teeth
while asleep. As they also talk to themselves a great deal we know why
they all bear the scars of regular injury as from what we learn of their
society it only just manages to not tear itself apart. 

Their obsessions control them and drive all impulsively toward whatever
goal that might be with training which appears brutal and frenzied.
Their primary focus in combat is debilitation and removal from combat
and with their vomitous ability to cause festering wounds that will not
heal are as good at taking far and deep out of combat as the far and
deep are at simply killing them. What few prisoners they take are
battered and broken then on rescue often beyond saving without easy
access to the order of the great red lady to repair the damage done to
their minds from torture.

We have little information of their leaders but they are few and
well-protected. They appear to be born with some of the will of
Grandfather Teeth much like the yellow and these births rapidly acquire
power and status. What far and deep clutch have encountered strong
leaders directly are often partly driven against each other despite
their strong dedication to the line. This same power is evidenced in the
society and all non-leader members are subservient to leaders of their
race to a great degree and will nearly and repeatedly work themselves to
death in service of them. Disobedient ones not born of the leader caste
and do not prove useful are often disposed of by their betters via their
lesser. This suicidal obedience to the leadership caste is palpable when
talking to any of the lesser members but they do appear capable of
tending to themselves even if their minds' abilities to produce
independent thought appear damaged by long term exposure to the
dominating caste. 

Physically they all have lost their wings as far as old drawings tell,
likely due to the extended scarring and injury inhibiting their
function, and instead now simply have ragged patches of sharp quills.
Even quilled on their thick muscular arms this affords them a great
climbing speed such the pillars of Gan are no sanctuary against them.
Otherwise they look similar to the other orders but bleed a curious
color of purple which none other orders have. It is posited that the
entity they contact has corrupted their order somehow and through
capturing what few prisoners we can find many are obviously in
withdrawal from some substance or another. This blood caused disease on
exposure and we hope it is not a developing property of the race and
merely a different caste. Without more captures it remains inconclusive
and the far and deep are not inclined to stop killing them long enough
to merely subdue any. We hope to soon have a place to contain and study
them and your part-gan can field questions to any of our ongoing studies
if you have further questions.

#### DM Information:

This race is composed of a single infective mind that has overpowered
their soul, mentally cloned at conception, which is ruled by copies of
itself. The ruling caste being those born with the recessive mutation of
being silvertongues and thus having some impulse control for longer-term
planning. In this manner all the silvertongues share a common bond and
are in the general sense, lawful evil, being maliciously stable.
Multiple players attempting to play this race ideally would attempt to
emulate each others' decision making without explaining how they arrive
at the conclusions. In aggregate the race behaves like this in decisions
of scope being largely herd mentality. Physical brain structure between
members is similar but differs enough to affect the expressing of their
copy of their progenitor while remaining effectively schizophrenic from
the whispering of their imprisoned soul. Machine generally assigns souls
to this order that are unstable or naturally evil to begin with so the
whispering only maddens them further toward whatever end the soul
prefers.

Their city structures are ludicrous at worst and get more functional the
closer one is to the living space of a silvertongue. As such attacking
their city generally involves passing through a confusing rat's den of
beds, rooms, long passages lain with traps, unexpected dead ends, and
generally inhospitable conditions. There is actually very little food
preparation there as being partly evil-oriented creatures feeding their
psychosis gives them sustenance to exist.

#### Requirements:

  - Alignment: Any Evil
  - Strength: 12
  - Class: any except fighter
  - Psionics are allowed only for those with megalomania
  - ECL: +2
  - Gender: Hermaphrodite

#### Abilities:

  - **+2 STR -1 DEX -2 WIS** -- Rather rash and unwise they are very
    well built though are difficult to relate to even to each other with
    such insanity.
  - **Imperil (Sp)** -- 1/week. This ability draws on the entity that
    drives them to force its gluttonous nature onto targets as to damage
    the ability of the target to heal either magically or naturally. If
    the target fails a fortitude save DC 10 + caster HD the target must
    make a save involuntarily versus any healing or restorative effect
    per that spell's description or a fortitude save DC 8 + class level
    (minimum 1) + int bonus of caster/source (minimum 1) in case of
    leveled effects from any source for 2d12 turns. Natural or fast
    healing will not occur during this duration and regeneration is
    divided in half rounded down. This effect can be lifted with a
    remove curse, limited wish, or wish spell.
  - **Illiterate** -- Generally only ruling class knows how to read and
    write as lacking any formal education system the vast majority of
    the population cannot do so. They may spend two skill points to
    become literate in their own language (Children's tongue). Their
    language uses a vast alphabet where grammar and vocabulary is
    similarly complex.
  - **Unstable** -- This Order's members are violently unstable from
    birth and will attack any order member entering their territory that
    is not one of their own unless making a DC 10 will save to not
    attack the target for 1d3 turns or in the presence of a silvertongue
    which is not subject to this effect. Order in the city is only
    maintained from the intimidation and/or awe of these leaders if not
    from their coercive force. All members are tattooed with a Evil
    brand \[BoVD pg 49\] at maturity depicting a moment's view of the
    travelers, their reference to spirits, suffering as congenital and
    likely spiritual insanity demands while beginning to have the
    traveler's essence perverted and augmented by lifeless metal.
  - **Insanity** -- High levels of mental instability among this order
    has become congenital and in some ways refined. All members born
    into the order have a dangerous psychosis of one type or another.
    Whenever this psychosis is sated the individual's hunger and thirst
    is sated for an hour per level. At level 8 partaking in their
    psychosis allows either a fort or will save, whichever is higher, to
    remove fatigue and exhaustion effects. Roll on the d12 for
    psychosis.

<!-- end list -->

1.  **Cannibalism **-- All members of this race are cannibals but this
    individual derives great pleasure from eating intelligent
    still-living creatures readily disabling sapient for the pleasure.
    +1 to attack and damage per two HD of the living creature consumed
    for 24 hours. Only one creature at a time can used for the ability.
    If the character goes more than 24 hours since eating an intelligent
    being they suffer a -2 to attack, damage, and AC from anxiety. At
    5<sup>th</sup> level the character can eat merely a limb of a
    currently living intelligent creature for +2 to attack and +4 to
    damage. Regenerative creatures are especially prized for such
    individuals. At 10<sup>th</sup> level they can gain either
    regeneration or fast-healing of a living victim when eating parts of
    them as long as the victim remains alive under their control. At
    20<sup>th</sup> level they will also gain access to any spell-like
    abilities the creature possesses for as long as the victim remains
    alive and under their control.
2.  **Self-Mutilation** -- These individuals will mutilate themselves in
    various patterns and ways as well as inserting ritual objects into
    their flesh as they are created by the order. Gains an additional
    use of their Imperil ability at 1<sup>st</sup> level. At
    7<sup>th</sup> and 14<sup>th</sup> level gains an additional use in
    the same period as well as +2 to the save DC (for a total of +4) as
    long as they have done at least 1 point of damage per class level to
    themselves the previous day. If they did not harm themselves the
    previous day they lose access to the ability for 1d3 days.
3.  **Masochism **- These members almost continuously scar themselves
    though they never mar their birth tattoo. This provides them with a
    great deal of injury tolerance if only from scar tissue. Gains the
    Diehard feat but suffer -2 AC bonus due to lack of any innate pain
    avoidance. At 3<sup>rd</sup> level and above total hit point gain
    for their constitution bonus each level is always maximum.
4.  **Sadism** -- Malicious beings that enjoy the pain of others they
    take great pleasure in making creatures scream in pain. +2 attack to
    targets visibly or audibly in pain. Suffer -4 attack when
    experiencing pain themselves in the last 2 rounds. At 7<sup>th</sup>
    level their imperil ability is quickened, at 14<sup>th</sup> level
    their imperil ability gains a area of 10ft. At 20<sup>th</sup> level
    their imperil ability is 1/day
5.  **Sadomasochism** -- These perverted individuals revel both in
    giving and receiving pain. +4 to grapple checks as long as someone
    in combat is in pain and gain DR 2/bludgeoning for rounds equal to
    half their constitution bonus rounded down after receiving damage.
    At 5<sup>th</sup> level during a grapple from or to them their
    spines cause an additional d3 piercing damage to a grappled or
    grappling target per five character levels. The damage lasts rounds
    equal to their strength bonus after terminating the grapple as their
    spines tear out and continue drilling in like a bee sting. At
    10<sup>th</sup> level their grapple damage counts as evil damage for
    purposes of DR, at 15<sup>th</sup> level their DR after receiving
    damage becomes 3/- At 20<sup>th</sup> level their grapple damage
    counts as a +1 magic item. 
6.  **Psychopathy** -- Deep in the methods and horror of murder these
    individuals revel in it. Gain the Boost spell like ability \[BoVD\]
    feat at 1<sup>st</sup> level for their imperil ability as long as
    they have injured an unwilling intelligent being that week enough to
    watch them die of their wounds. 7<sup>th</sup> level they gain the
    death knell ability at will, At 14<sup>th</sup> level they gain slay
    living 1/day
7.  **Rapist** -- These vile creatures will enjoy forcing themselves on
    anyone they feel they can subdue. +3 to grapple checks -10 to sense
    motive or charisma based checks. At 5<sup>th</sup> level gain the
    Hold person spell 2/day, at 10<sup>th</sup> level their hold person
    ability is replaced with Dominate person 1/day and they receive
    grapple circumstance bonus of +4
8.  **Necrophilia** -- Beyond cannibalism these individuals will molest
    the bodies of the dead if they didn't kill the individual in the
    first place to get what they want. May choose improved turning as a
    bonus feat regardless of class to make turning checks to command
    undead at 3 lower than their class level once a day. -8 to will
    checks to save against compulsion effects from undead or
    necromancers. At 10<sup>th</sup> level turning checks to command
    undead are made at their class level. At 10<sup>th</sup> level and
    every 5 levels thereafter the character may use this ability an
    additional time per day. 
9.  **Bestiality** -- Deviant in attraction they often molest various
    local creatures or races other than their own if they encounter any.
    Gain +2 to Handle animal and +2 to attack versus animals. At
    5<sup>th</sup> level their bonuses to handle and attack animals
    changes to +4 At 10<sup>th</sup> level they gain dominate animal
    1/day, at 15<sup>th</sup> level they gain an ability to shape shift
    into a specific animal one size smaller than themselves 1/week for
    24 hours. At 20<sup>th </sup>level they get another form of their
    choice their own size or smaller and the ability lasts until
    reverting to their normal form.
10. **Substance addiction** -- These individuals are addicted to any
    substance that will give them a high even though with their tolerant
    constitution the drugs rarely kill them. +2 versus poisons, -4 to
    all other fortitude saves. At 5<sup>th</sup> level they can never be
    put below 3 ability points through poisons or drugs but may still
    die if the substance deals enough damage. At 10<sup>th</sup> level
    their natural attacks gain a poison effect for 1 dose of whatever
    substance they are abusing at the time as long as they are not
    currently in withdrawal. At 15<sup>th</sup> level their blood
    becomes a contact poison and dealing more than their half their
    level in damage through a melee attack exposes the attacker to the
    substance they are addicted to as if struck by their natural attack.
    
11. **Kleptomaniac** -- This individual cannot help stealing things that
    belong to others and hoard these items wherever they live. DC 15
    will save to not attempt to pickpocket items from those nearby or
    steal some protected item within arms reach. From their (improbably)
    long life of compulsive thievery they gain a +4 circumstance bonus
    to slight of hand skill checks and a +2 circumstance bonus to move
    silently, at 10<sup>th</sup> level the circumstance bonus for both
    skills doubles and can cast Knock 1/day, and at 15<sup>th</sup>
    level can cast dimension door 2/day 
12. **Megalomania** -- These individuals seek to control others and are
    almost entirely the composition of the ruling class. They are named
    silvertongues for the metallic sheen in their mouth. Gain the
    leadership feat for free at first level and if they do not have
    cohorts to sate their psychosis lose their special abilities. -4 to
    charisma based skill checks for races or clans other than their own.
    At 3<sup>rd</sup> level they gain a +4 racial bonus to diplomacy and
    bluff when dealing with their own race. At 7<sup>th</sup> level they
    no longer gain negatives for the death of cohorts or followers when
    dealing with their own race and may use suggestion as a spell-like
    ability times per day equal to their charisma bonus. At
    11<sup>th</sup> level they gain mass suggestion 1/day, and at
    15<sup>th</sup> level they may use their suggestion ability at will
    as a free action

<!-- end list -->

  - **Lowered negative resistance** -- Unlike the other orders their
    unstable natures have damaged their defenses against the undead and
    like effects and their resistance is Resist negative energy 1.
  - **Flightless** -- Their bodies have become too stocky to glide and
    with just quills remaining they cannot fly. Instead of a fly speed
    they have a Climb 10 speed and to grapple them causes 1d3 piercing
    damage per round while it is maintained.
  - **Severe** -- Muscles clearly oversize for their frame the damage
    progression for unarmed damage is naturally as a medium creature
    instead of a small one
  - **Favored Class: Barbarian** -- Their minds are unsuited to the
    regular and rote focus that the martial arts or fighter discipline
    requires.

### Order of the Far and Deep

#### Neena, scribe of the Yellow. Dictated by the Yellow as His will.

Ahh the Far and Deep, these are the dedicated defenders of His people
and serve well if not for their disobedience toward His servant.
Obstinate and entrenched their endless war with the Order of the
superior has shrunken their minds. I have spent time born among them but
I find them constrictive and tightly bound. Still their capacity at
defending the line is peerless to the other orders and they are
necessary to contain the order of the superior. His will is to let them
hold the line despite their disobedient natures. Their small insular
lives are spent entirely obsessed with warfare and will kill without
consideration for their betters. 

#### Yuri, 3 Gan of the line

Most certainly a grudge. Do not try to talk to the yellow without
reinforcement of at least a Gan as it reduces the chance that the yellow
will simply will your body to die. Though she interferes in similar
fashion when we get an upper hand against her the Far and Deep do what
we must to prevent expansion of the order of the Superior. Due to the
yellow's efforts we have been at a stalemate for many full lives now. If
anything has 'shrunken our minds' it is her iron grip on the order of
the red lady as it limits our negotiating capacity with the order of the
superior even such as they are and severely limits the amount of
tactical guidance we can acquire from its sees. In absence of this our
efforts have returned to repelling the endless attacks by the order of
the superior as they seek lands they have not badly depleted.

Our order is very focused, true, as we neither gather any significant
amount of food nor craft many of our mundane supplies. Our time is
instead spent training if not on the line or making war supplies so we
appear very lifeless to the Yellow in her current born order. Also as
the ganblood plates seem to prevent her sight into sensitive areas it is
unlikely she is aware of the listening posts we have in many other clans
and it provides a strategic advantage to keep the numb minds of the
order she tampers with from interfering with the line. 

Unlike the other orders all our members are equal even if male, much
like myself, and we have an equal proportion of males to females. Those
of you that are female of course are required to replace yourselves and
your assigned clutch in eggs before you will be allowed to fight on the
front line so until that can occur we suggest you train. Some trainees
do stay behind to learn working the ganblood metal, train with other
members, or study with twitch on specialized equipment procured from far
reaches in the place beyond the world. These duties may be assigned to
you as needs arise. If your developing skills merit more dangerous
assignment you may be assigned with twitch on their journey into the
place beyond the world to care for their mental and physical well being
on extended excursions. 

#### Sindel, Overstudy for the order with the storm high

As Yuri has mentioned your primary duties will be defense of the border
of our territory with the order of the Superior referred to as the line
by any of the other orders. While the yellow is indeed being
disingenuous the far and deep do have a regimented mindset. Many will
not consider new ideas unless proposed by their commanders. The order of
the Great Red Lady served largely as the strategic caste until the
yellow co-opted the order some time ago limiting their expression and
general intellectual flexibility. As such my order has taken on many of
their tactical and advisory duties and the far and deep now directly
serve as escorts to those explorers we have in the place beyond the
world. 

Generally obsessed with their duties of protecting their charges they do
respect our traditions and serve the female explorers when asked since
treaty requires they serve both mental and physical well being.
Occasionally they assign the same gender to go with our explorers being
rather pragmatic if they do not have a male to spare despite the treaty
requiring otherwise. Tradition as much as our logic dictates that all
pairs must be able to produce eggs so we attempt to get them to stop but
their social habits are often inaccessible. Even with our great level of
interaction as they do not associate socially with other clans unless
ordered to and many of the gan are in similar egg-less pairs. Thankfully
they often associate with the sex they require to produce eggs so their
best leaders maintain their path of births. We see it as inefficient for
each clutch or mated pair to raise their own children rather than it
being a keeper's task but they are not flexible on this.

We helped them discover and refine ganblood ingots through our
experimentation with tools from the place beyond the world as such many
part-gans come to us with ideas and concepts to search for in the place
beyond the world as to better serve or arm their clutch. We provide
logistics, supply storage, and developments of learning since the far
and deep deal in combat rather than mundane things and many have a
disdain for ferreting cargo to the battlefield rather than guarding the
line. 

Even if they dislike these noncombat tasks their sense of duty to the
whole does not affect their performance when asked of them and go with
all their strength at all things. This intensity is also shown in their
mated pairs as most persist beyond death as long as both recall each
other at birth. Given the far and deep have such little loss when their
traveler is forced to carry their memories to a new body the bond often
persists even both are the same gender. 

Their rituals in regard to rules for mated pairs are not written down as
much as anything else not directly associated with the line with
similarly little art or literature found among them. What little culture
they have is generally held between mated pairs and not shared with
others or recorded. This renders their buildings barren and sparse
except for utilitarian goods or ornate weaponry collections though this
limits the ability to identify important structures so it may be
intentional. In short they are a heavily dedicated order that tolerates
no distractions to their purpose with the unshakable, if inflexible,
will to carry it out. 

#### DM Information:

Kreen's mind is ephemeral and difficult to contact as the Lost drown out
most coherent thought. Members of the order are mostly concerned with
defense of 'the line' and recently meditation to filter out Kreen's
thoughts among the screaming noise in order to put together meaningful
information about the outside construct. This tightly kept secret is not
shared with the other orders. This derived for them once learning new
languages more advanced architecture knowledge from the extensive
libraries of the order With the Storm High along with some other basic
skills, so they can live in airborne cities attached by chain to support
columns toward the ceiling. Though they contend regularly with gliders
or other denizens of the ceiling they continually survey their
environment and meditate for a chance exposure to a stray thought during
normal surveillance duties. Otherwise they remain insular and remote to
the other clans. 

Members live in assigned clutch groups where the females are expected to
produce enough eggs for all members of their clutch before being allowed
to go to war but are otherwise nondiscriminatory compared to the other
clans. As they have discovered the only unlocked exit from the reservoir
they have some direct exposure to other races from literature littered
about the artifact Kreen's interior and surveillance of the same.
Keeping the line mostly refers to holding back the encroaching march of
the Order of the Superior as such the other orders rarely question their
duties when policing inter-order squabbles. All have intense
personalities devoted to strong moral codes of some stripe shared by
their clutch and even though most are in tightly knit squads they work
as a whole in training and defense. Punishment for betraying the line or
murdering each other is often punished with death by desiccation this
being secured by chain below the bridging between pillars of Gan until
either dying of dehydration or serving their sentence. They are isolated
from their peers by a deafening head garb though this particular
punishment is usually reserved for those sentenced to death.

Their clutch groups serve also as parent to any true children born or
assigned to them though many mated pairs exist in parallel. New births
are assigned to squads once of age whom tend to them assuming they do
not recover their memory. Their eyes are commonly colored a bright
cobalt blue and all bleed this color. The blood itself is often used to
forge ingots of workable metal, Ganblood ingots, by skilled members of
their order.

#### Requirements:

  - Alignment: Any
  - Required Class: No Sorcerer, Wizard, or divine classes
  - Favored class: Fighter -- This race has access to metal weaponry and
    armor and as such uses it a great deal

#### Abilities:

  - **Perceive (Sp)** -- 1 per class level per day concentrated for as
    long at one sitting as desired. The caster can observe as scry from
    any shrine to another shrine they have made a pilgrimage to on the
    same plane. Requires a still pool of clean water to use. They can
    also use this ability centered on themselves with a concentration
    check of DC 10 once an hour for a 1% chance to hear a portion of
    Kreen's current thought process among its selves while meditating
    that hour.
  - **Prescient (Su)** -- All are aware of the location of any inner
    self of the artifact Kreen or any energy channeler above
    10<sup>th</sup> level if within 100' regardless of concealment.
  - **Blue-blooded** -- This order is blue-blooded for effects that
    require it.
  - **Indomitable link** --All deaths of this order have a 5% chance per
    level to be immediately reborn into a waiting egg or else function
    per normal reincarnation rules. The member will remember everything
    up until their death as well as retain all class levels and their
    former body can never be resurrected by any means, must reroll their
    attributes, and lose any acquired templates.
  - **Literate** -- Unlike the red lady's children these members are all
    quite literate and all keep extensive and detailed records in an
    inherited journal of anything they've ever heard from Kreens' minds.
  - **Bonus languages:** Draconic, Sylvan, Halruuan
  - **Automatic languages:** Common, Red lady's children
  - **Low Light Vision** -- Their eyes have become better adapted from
    traversing the underworks and have normal low light vision.
  - **+4 attack versus the order of the superior** -- They have been
    battling the order of the superior for a long time and have
    developed a great deal of specific methods that are taught to all
    soldiers.
  - **Feat:** These characters gain one feat or ability from this list
    for free at first level regardless of any prerequisites: Iron Will
    (now stacks), Great Fortitude (now stacks), Ferocity (Ex),
    Toughness, Improved unarmed strike
  - **+2 AC (Natural armor)** -- This race's skin is made of sterner
    stuff given their blood's curious quality of solidifying under
    sudden pressure and redundant path circulatory system.

### With the Storm High

#### Neena, scribe of the Yellow. Dictated by the Yellow as His will

These of his children are a curious mongrel from times past. They
persist as their own order now when once they were forced to wander and
sleep wherever they could find purchase. Now they have cities of their
own to glorify Him and serve to create tools and knowledge with which to
further His people. Though their minds are quick their bodies are weak
and many lack breeding that bids Him to give them trials of the body.
They travel in His world much to the anger of His children and though
some die they bring back some of his wonders so I am loath to tamper
with them in this matter. Their libraries are unparalleled now from
years of study in His lands and though their eyes can be blind from the
wonder that is His they serve His work to my satisfaction.

#### Yuri, 3 Gan of the line

This order serves as those who study and investigate our world though
they do not fully understand it. We restrict some information from them
but they study Losthome, calling it the 'the place beyond the world',
with abandon as we have no practical way of stopping them. Thankfully
the superior have not found a way to exploit this as the twitch are
generally too naturally anxious to sleep and dream when imprisoned by
the silvertongues. Still they get taken every so often and we have a
detestable treaty with their females for companionship and guards in
their forays into the world in trade for weapons, tools, and medicines.
The centers of learning run by their keepers are now unmatched with the
Yellow's iron fist clutched around the only other large libraries kept.
Keepers teach talents of all descriptions including some of our own as
provided by old soldiers that smith tools for the line. We maintain a
large group of smiths there, more than are needed for training, to
provide for their research in keeping their goals for expanding our
available tools and weapons. Their improvements have taken over some of
the duties normally given to the order of the red lady though they do
not excel at them are quite diligent if not as line-worthy. Recently we
have been expanding their role in the line with their growing numbers of
mind wills which add a very useful field-support role with ammo supplies
that are comparatively inexhaustible. Their abilities to drift closer
into Losthome while still within our world have proven useful for
stealth duties though very few are competent fighters.

#### Sindel, Overstudy for the order with the storm high

Our order is mostly full of teachers, creators, and archivists. We do
not participate in the artistry of the red lady's children as much but
our cities are generally always full of all the orders. Our universities
rule each city with their headmaster though the crafters always have a
say as they are usually from the order of the far and deep. Our other
goal is expanding our knowledge by exploring the place beyond the world
our order discovered many lives ago and we have a number of treaties
dedicated to that. It consumes a great deal of our resources and that of
the far and deep but given the various supplies we can only locate there
they are usually enthusiastic about the trip if not the other portion of
the contract that requires them to serve our females. Most of our ruling
class is female though we are not so rigidly held as the order of the
red lady to tradition but males are still treated well and have the
right of property. Many individuals subsist entirely on bounties from
objects brought from the place beyond the world and there is a small but
not insignificant amount of the population dedicated expressly to this
beyond the primary control of the university or the crafters. They
usually pay respect to the keeper's demands all the same and their
groups are well-kept so there is little regulation of them by the
keepers. Though this makes the far and deep unhappy this arrangement has
led to surprise discoveries of groups taking the chance to wander far
past mapped areas of the place beyond the world and make quite a name
for themselves. A few large groups have a significant quantity of
spellcasters and the far and deep's crafters may soon require the groups
to have a keeper named among them.

#### DM information:

A Hybrid of the Order of the Superior and the Order of the Great Red
Lady before the two diverged too far to breed together. As many of this
order focusing on intellectual concerns happen to have nervous tics the
Far and Deep have also commonly refer to those that explore knowledge as
'twitches' and their casters as 'mind wills'. This order has homed in
more on the 'place beyond the world' after these hybrids began waking up
inside it while dreaming. This leaves them as a whole largely nonviolent
in goals if nevertheless still disturbed by Losthome if not by their
heritage. All suffer from hallucination and/or general psychosis though
they easily manage to form a vastly more efficient order to productive
ends in comparison to the Order of the Superior. A caste of stronger
minded individuals seek out understanding of the Place Beyond the World
and those that reside in it as well as directing and managing the group
in a decentralized fashion. Most members function in some role in
research or and produce the most advanced alchemical materials available
in any real quantity. They have a general regard for the Order of the
Great Red Lady and the two trade regularly unlike the Order of the Far
and Deep which only offers information or guardian consorts to them in
return. They are the most flexible in their habitat in having underwater
cities, wall cities, and even rehabilitating abandoned Order of the Far
and Deep's outposts connected to support columns. Their movements can be
distant and partly ethereal should they desire in drawing from the Place
Beyond the World but it is far too taxing to do continually. 

#### Requirements:

  - Alignment: Chaotic Neutral or Chaotic Good
  - Class: no divine classes or psionics

#### Abilities:

  - **Faint (Sp)** -- 1/day plus 1 per every two of the highest class
    level. Caster gains a +4 camouflage bonus to hide and move silently
    checks for 1d4+1 rounds but must be used while flying and ends on
    landing. The bonus increases by +2 at 5<sup>th</sup> level and at
    15<sup>th</sup> level.

  - **-2 Con, +4 Int** -- Contact with the storm has left them numb but
    they are fairly intelligent compared to their peers.

  - **Blue-blooded** -- This order is blue-blooded for effects that
    require it.

  - **Maneuverability (average)** -- They have more complex wing
    structures and thus are better able to maneuver in the air.

  - **Psychosis **-- Due to their heritage they still have congenital
    psychosis but it is significantly less pronounced.
    
    1.  **Delusional (Mild)** -- These individuals have some mild change
        in their perceived environment that will not dislodge. Ones such
        as thinking they are underwater and have gills but otherwise
        interacting as normal. +2 save versus illusions not their own.
        These delusions can be generated from hallucinating a trait
        \[DMG 4-24 p.128\] about a random minor dungeon furnishing \[DMG
        p.66\]
    2.  **Delusional (Severe)** -- These individuals though not
        emotionally unstable have a severely perturbed mental
        environment. Delusions such as thinking all the other order
        members are small fish in a world made of food. May save
        immediately upon exposure versus illusions not their own. These
        delusions can be generated from hallucinating 2d4 traits \[DMG
        4-24 p.128\] about a random minor dungeon furnishing \[DMG
        p.66\]
    3.  **Mania** -- Unable to regulate their emotions to any large
        degree these individuals often change mood and continuously
        operate at maximum intensity. In this race it gives them just as
        particularly strong and intense focus in whatever they fixate on
        despite distractions. +10 racial bonus to concentration and
        spellcraft checks but the character can only change target or
        type in combat every 1d3 rounds regardless if the target exists
        or is alive anymore or not. A target can be an area, individual,
        activity or other such type valid for spells or abilities while
        in combat but they can change either the type of activity or
        target per opportunity, not both.
    4.  **Neurotic** -- Nervous wrecks as a rule these individuals are
        unable to relax. Constantly worrying about various things they
        are rather vigilant if fairly stable but don't function well.
        +10 racial bonus to listen and spot and -5 to all other skills.
    5.  **Obsessive compulsive** -- Intensely focused with the use of
        any one random skill they get +10 competence bonus with it and
        may not learn any other skill of that stat ability type. This
        skill may be changed when gaining a level once per three class
        levels and the new ability inhibits any ranks in skills of the
        new obsessed ability's stat type from taking effect in rolls.
    6.  **Phobic** -- Acquire an unavoidable terror of the first thing
        to do them physical harm. Must save vs fear DC 15 in order to
        make any action to interact with such things. If failing the
        check by 5 they run and hide from the target. If losing by 10
        the character cowers. If making the save they gain a +4 strength
        bonus if taking actions to destroy the target.

  - **+2 Craft(Bookbinding)** -- Used for their white pigment on dried
    kelp pages 

  - **+2 Craft(Alchemy)** -- All individuals are expected to contribute
    to learning in some matter if at least making supplies for the line

## Items

### Grenade-like Weapons

  - **Pyrosnail Bomb** -- Must be set off by an at least 3<sup>rd</sup>
    level evocation spell. Once detonated the pressure wave causes all
    inorganic solids, including walls, within 2d6+3 feet (or 1d3
    squares) to make a sunder check as if against opponent with a +20
    bonus and all targets in that range that make the save take 3d6
    force damage instead.

### Special Materials

  - **Ganblood **-- Forged by either weapon or armor smiths it is a
    bright blue ingot that produces an audible if faint ringing when
    touched. The material has a hardness of 10 and 30 hp/inch of
    thickness. Items that are made of this material must be entirely
    composed of it, for example a weapon cannot have a wooden handle, in
    order to use its innate abilities. An item that is broken is not
    symbiotic and a blue-blooded red lady's child must expend HP as
    material as well as a craft check to bring the item to at least half
    its HP before it will resume regeneration from its symbiotic ability
    when carried. See ganblood ingot for crafting raw material.
    
    1.  **Fleshen** (Sp) -- Non-magical items can be repaired of damage,
        though not if completely broken, by exposure to an equal HP
        value of blood from any of the blue-blooded members of the
        red-lady's children. Spells or abilities cannot affect these
        items directly either through mending or healing.
    2.  **Symbiotic** - As long as the unbroken items made of this
        material are used by blue-blooded red lady's children at least
        once a day bladed weapons will gain the Keen attribute and armor
        will induce fast healing 1 in its wearer which does not stack.
        The item itself regenerates 1 hp every other hour if damaged.
        Should the item be an intelligent magic item it will gain the
        spell-like ability to drain d6 HP per turn in subdual damage
        from a blue-blooded wielder and add it to its own total. Such
        intelligent items also have +1 Ego.
    3.  **Bond Memory** (Sp)- Broken magic weapons or armor of this
        material will regain their abilities upon being repaired as long
        as it is entirely repaired by the same individual that created
        the item and employed it when broken or enough time passes that
        the fully repaired item would have regenerated ten times its HP.
        This means 2 hour periods that the item regenerates actual
        damage does not count toward the period after which the item
        regains its magic powers.

|                       |                    |
| --------------------- | ------------------ |
| Type of Ganblood Item | Item Cost Modifier |
| Light armor           | \+1500 GP          |
| Medium Armor          | \+6000 GP          |
| Heavy Armor           | \+13500 GP         |
| Shield                | \+1500 GP          |
| Other Items           | \+750 GP/lb.       |

  - Kelp -- As leather

### Miscellaneous Items

  - **Necroplankton Paste** -- Cures echosphore infection, causes 1d6
    negative energy damage. Can be used as weapon coating, refer to
    poisoning rules.
  - **Manyfish extract (oil)** -- cures 1d6 + con bonus HP for 1d3
    rounds
  - **Kelp Core** -- 2d6 temporary con bonus for 2d12 hours only while
    sick with poison or disease
  - **Fell grape wine** -- Primary: Confusion, Secondary: Fast healing 2
    for 1d3 hours
  - **Pyropad Oil** -- Primary: 2d6 temporary int damage, Secondary:
    Lesser restoration
  - **Ganblood Ingot** -- 750 GP - To create a 1lb ingot of this
    material requires a weapon or armorsmithing check DC 15. If drawing
    the blood from a live subject it will also require a healing check
    DC 10 to draw blood as subdual damage instead of normal damage. Raw
    material is requires 25 HP per ingot worth 30 gold per hit point for
    determining time to create an ingot. A single smith cannot expend
    more than their class level in HP per day from any given target
    without medical assistance (long-term care healing check DC from
    another) unless a preserved supply is available and blood supplies
    may not have mixed sources. The specialized equipment to process the
    ingots costs 200 GP without which the smith takes a -10 circumstance
    penalty for improvised tools. Once the ingots are created they can
    then be combined with more ingots to smith larger items.
