# Timeline of the Red Lady's Children

## Creation Mythos Thoughts

### Vilyan

Unwilling Secretive Goddess

Emphasis on maintaining favor with Vilyan to help protect them from the
Machine when they die.

Visualised as: Red Eyeless Female, One without hunger, One blind to
hunger, Minder of the balanced home 

### Machine

Creator and harvester of sorrow

Fear of the machine ending the cyle of their rebirth once at peace

Visualized as: Ever hunger, Clacking maw, Predator among teeth, The
starved one

### Kreen

A personified existance of Kreen does not exist; likened instead to the
concept of their world, (like earth, not gaia)

Kreen isn't aware of them due to the storm's deafening racket and hasn't
gone down to the reservoir since installing the intake filter.

Violent, hyperompetitive history before interaction with Vilyan

Primary component of society is underwater

## Society flow

Clutch -\> Tribal -\> Despotism -\> Gnostic Socialist

Green societal structure foused on subsistence within resources
availible

Gnostic leader -- Shaman or High Monk

Taoist?

## Resources

Fish (Manyfish)

Bone

Fungus (Water or wall wart)

Webbing (Rare)

Kelp

Bone

## Timeline

### Distant

Unclear, genetic memory

Living on seaweed islands near reservoir outtake gathering fish

Partly cannibalistic to survive

Lost many to gliders

### Prehistoric Era

Hollowing out wall warts for housing and protection

Territory in clutch groups for wart housing

Largest wall wart colony near a surface water fungus colony gains the
most territory and the first diverse group forms

### Colonial Era

Swimmers catching fish enter air pocket of largest water fungus colony
and construct fishing cave from hollowed caves

Fishing huts begin diving to gather water fungus nodes and practice
spreads

### Farming Era

With land and housing more availible farming begins of native flora

With stored food division of labor occurs and leader cast asserts
control

War over scarse lands inreases mortality rate and first underwater
colony is lost

Tribal warfare is ignited and the majority of hostile males are
exterminated

### Rise Of The Great Red Lady

One creative-obsessed member attracts Vilyan's attention and he
eventually notices her

Individual develops wild talent for communication and begins to interact
with her as a diety

Vilyan starts avoiding them but is repeatedly sought out as other wild
talents appear and belief in her as a protective diety spreads

Prolific spread of worship and repeated consorting by now religious
leaders sees her begrudging tending but is ignored at her insistance at
not being a diety

Society of major city begins to convert and leader is overthrown in
theocratic coup

Other cities begin to fall in line as their society begins to become
fully theocratic

### Contended Machine Era

Some of the more hostile males make contat with the machine and a
splinter faction results

Settlers move in a further location with assassistance provided through
contact with machine

Peaceful tribe fends off initial attacks and holds its borders

First career peacekeepers arise

Some tribes are converted to worshipping the machineand territory lines
are drawn

Underwater corridors are constructed for defensive purposes

### Resource war (Modern)

Deep diving for more water fungus colonies, large specimens are dragged
into shallow waters

Organic material is dredged from the bottom for growing plants

Vilyan sends seeds via glass crayfish

Sabatoge theft common from machine tribe 

Shaman leaders learn from Vilyan to combat machine's influence.
