# Red Lady's Children Creation Mythos

Neena, scribe of the yellow. Dictated by the yellow as His will.

I see you, four of shadows. I am the the Yellow, emissary of the one
known as Grandfather Teeth and His word bids me to tell you the history
of the red lady's children. Our kind remembers little from our time
before Grandfather Teeth came. Our kind arrived from these places long
forgotten, an alien to his watery lands, but most agree we fed of each
other blindly in a frenzy to stay alive. This hunger drove us to hunt
for fish and through the trials he set before us our lungs grew
stronger. An unknowing gift from Grandfather Teeth's struggles with a
heart of darkness secreted away in the depths of places beyond our
world. 

Through trials in living within his heart we gained the strength to
persevere in His lands. However, He gave us no notice for we were yet
unworthy of being prey even as their leader birthed eggs to glorify the
strength He gave us from suffering in his world and yet persevering.
Though this suffering I, the Yellow, not always the leader of our people
was looking for fish to feed my clutch when upon my reflection I saw His
mind. I struck out at it blindly as the mask atop my long mind cries out
to attack prey. Water struck back with equal force trying to drag me
away and it took all my strength to tear free as liquid clarity screamed
a fire into my mind. 

"I" was the name of this flame. Growing in intensity and power it was
fueled by feeding upon the memory of this place beyond the world. Still
it wanted more and I hungered. The same hunger that those that came for
me in my dreams as masses of teeth and flesh emerged from the place
beyond the world to gnash and slice at my mind. These children of teeth
screamed His name as I slaughtered them that came for me and made their
strength my own and fed the flame within. Even in my waking hours He
sent them for the mask atop my long mind shone to him as an imperfection
that had invaded into His magnificence though now it had begun to burn
He gave no notice for the flame of I that burnt in my mind shone not
enough light for such as He to notice. Still I gathered food to fill my
stomach by day then slept with the sweet taste of children of teeth in
my mouth by morning.

In time they stopped coming for me as the flame of I drove them away but
the sundering it wrought on my long mind's mask was not sated. The
dreams would not come as my nightmares stopped but the hunger pressed
closer. When the nightmares stopped entirely the flame was unabated and
this "I" burning thoughts into my mask drove me across the bridge into
the place beyond the world to gather more. Long I hunted the children of
teeth in the vastness of His mind as the flame of I coursed through my
veins and shook my frame at a shouting demand muffled by the mask. In
time I learned their smell. I wanted the taste of His glory. I wanted
badly enough to shake in need even as I found a trail in that first
night. The world changed under its feet in a remembrance shrouded from
the mask on my long mind and the sight of it bled me but the blood of
His weaker progeny pushed my body onward. My mind was alight with pain
as I tore at the prey, too pained to yet perceive the greatness of His
work before me, obsessed with the need for His sweetness as my own blood
ran from my eyes.

The child and I fought but I persevered as the child of teeth merely
existed where flame of "I" burned with need. As the child of teeth fell
before me His will came upon me as I ate of its heart and gained the
strength of His heart of darkness. The flame of "I" began to scream
through holes burnt in my mask:I wants, We need, I must have, then in a
spear through my brain it rattles my will and breaks my dreaming. "I
MUST SERVE." 

Awoke with my shaking abated and blackness of my feathers bled from my
body I return to my kin changed. The flame of I whispers through the
holes and infests across it like a disease and from these holes what is
now burning with the flame of I sees through my mask. An infection at
first pained becomes comfortable, then appropriate, then soon welcomed.
Seeing the males submit before females the flame of I makes my simple
mind to drink of His thoughts: "Those that will not serve His glory must
be punished by the fist." In this the flame of I I hear prey that
whisper from the flame and their place becomes known to me. As the old
need returns I prepare my clutch that the whispering child of teeth
would feed clutch to ignite them also and carry the heat my own heart
outward. After many nights seeking dreams in search of my prey the place
beyond the world comes to me again in the sharp and rancid scent of the
child of teeth that comes to whisper its pain. The nightmares think
themselves beyond reproach but the flame of I directs to feed as His
hunger is absolute.

**\*\*discard?**\*\*

I, the yellow, seeking to gain notice from His passing along the limits
of His heart looked into this lifeblood from which we gather food that
fills His heart and saw the place beyond the world where His mind
creates all strength. 

The power there seeped into my blood and His presence gave me gave his
hunger. His false light blinded me and I now saw the expanse of this
place where His mind resides. Then through His breath that passed into
me I remembered the path underneath me. In the false light of the first
path on which I was now thrust as I become these things He felt me
emerge against His order. The mouth of his rage welled up from the land
then to grind away a morsel in His many mouths' teeth I but an invader
within magnificence. A mountain of claws, mouths, and teeth rushed out
from the torrent of flesh with no path by His perfect hunting left for
me to flee but still I did not go screaming before Him. My path was
clear from within his mind to mine to kneel and serve; a supplicant to
be beaten and torn that I may grow stronger. Bitten and torn my body
leaves pieces to hit the earth where my heart stops beating but the body
finds purchase as his will replaces it and through His grinding will my
blood still boiled and I did not yet die. Faded, worn, but strong from
the trials of what His body had fostered I found my voice and I yell at
Him, "I remember\! I serve\! Tell me how to do your work\!"

Will that was now my heart is taken only to glorify His creation; his
flesh retreats and I find myself to face with Him that hunts with a
thousand mouths. Then He speaks unto me, "This discarded thing once
deemed ever broken now comes to offer its purpose to me with no
worthlessness in it resides. Tell me from where your children come that
I may judge what I have cast away as worthy of returning to me."

My will is fresh and my mind is pure from nearness to the perfect hunter
and I tell him I reside in the place where the darkness his discarded
blood festers and rots. That we have made it better; that we have
brought to it order. I awaken carrying his eyes at me as my beating
heart is eaten by fish as so much unused meat. I feel that I am stronger
and go to my people. Simple were we at first 

\~ The Yellow

## Terminology

  - Long Mind -- The mind concept of the red lady's children is that of
    a path branching indefinitely in both directions with their birth at
    one bottleneck in the middle. the long mind is the path to the left
    stretching off into the distance. 
  - Masks -- This refers to the barrier atop the long mind that obscure
    its view from the individual
  - Place beyond the world -- They liken this to dreaming, they go there
    to hunt for whispers beneath masks of the long mind
  - One With Teeth -- A.K.A Elder Teeth, Eater of Nothing-light
  - Heart of Darkness -- This is more loosely defined as the force of
    nature. That which floods strength along ties that bind their world.
  - Mouth -- in a general sense, something that holds teeth together
  - Teeth -- This is often related to in a sense of tool-use. Teeth work
    on things/food.
  - Der's Path -- The staircase leading up to the door that leaves the
    reservoir
  - Veins of Der -- Reference to the Kelp that is ubiquitous to the
    reservoir. Though to carry strength from the heart of darkness to
    the world.

## Long ago

  - Darkness prevailed, little sight
  - Heart of darkness cradled by the one of teeth
  - Mundane animal lives obsessed with the ranting of masks atop the
    long mind
  - No names
  - Darkness mired the one of teeth who starved

## Rise of Sight

  - One of teeth saw no food in blood and cared not for them
  - One female looked into reflection to see place beyond the world
  - The one of teeth flowed around the breach beyond the world but one
    of its maw ground against her mind
  - Teeth gnashed and bit but the force of her will and body ate of its
    mouth and made its strength her own

## Epiphany

  - Obsessed with this new verdant hinting ground
  - Gazed long beyond the world in search of maws weak enough to
    consumed by the force of her will to give birth to strong progeny
  - She hunted for many days before laying eye to harvest
  - One separated from the volume of its teeth the long mind drove her
    to taste of this abandoned mouth to east well of the flesh
  - Heart of darkness cradled the wounded mouth of the machine but she
    fed of it from its weakness
  - Taking in the heart, drinking of its blood, her body burnt with its
    life and was sated
  - Retreated from the place beyond the world with the black blood of
    the one with teeth flooding her mind
  - The blood mutilated and tore as it wept from her eyes but she
    persevered
  - The blood tainted her heart to need to hunt her own kind but she
    persevered
  - The blood drove her then away from her kind in defeat but looked
    back and saw no blood in their own eyes or a long mind in them
  - In this moment of weakness the blood boiled away the mask of her
    kind as it was conquered 
  - Her eyes then could know of her own face
  - Instinct of the long mind heard distant called out the need for a
    name and growled her duty
  - The blood of the one beyond the world had lain the foundation for a
    Tower of Der as it rot and body craved the release of it in progeny

## Birth of the tall mind

  - She sought out others of her own kind now that the blood could not
    drive her away
  - Progeny pealed a formant from the foundation of Gan that it might be
    born into motion
  - Found many others of her kind but few that the Tower of Der
    whispered of direction
  - As unworthy males fought to take of her attentions she instead
    struck them down 
  - The strength of her blood suffocated their strength without a
    foundation of Der to protect them from it and they fell without the
    press of her teeth
  - She roamed in the direction whispered by the Tower of Der until
    coming upon another that would not be laid weakly down
  - She saw a place for the Tower of Der beyond his eyes and struck down
    his mate that she may lay with him instead.
  - They fought, for her attack had violated the mask atop the long
    mind, and bit her in fury
  - Tasting of her blood the foundation of Der seared away his mask as
    well as the drops ate into flesh
  - Freed the mirror of self beyond the mask of her chosen mate's long
    mind
  - Collapsing under the weight of the foundation of Der upon the long
    mind she brought her mate of the unworthy female that he may feed
    and grow stronger
  - Looked at the one who would be his mate and could see the Tower of
    Der that could be
  - Looked at the one who had been his mate and saw nothing but a mask
    over her long mind with nothing but a fading light behind her eyes
  - The foundation of Der began to whisper in him as well 
  - The whisper demanded he be strong to help build towers of Der fed of
    the Nothing-light that his body would be well fed.
  - Standing strong atop the foundation of Der she found her mate worthy
    and went to lay with him
  - Soon the whisper of a foundation of Der became a song from a Tower
    of Der and she knew she was laden with progeny
  - Her mate remained so that a Foundation of Gan may remain a strength
    for the Towers of Der that would be
  - The song of the tower of Der gave her wisdom that it carried her
    mate in its song and she did not case him off.

## Home in shadow's heart

  - They traveled among the kelp sea for many feedings in search of a
    place for the Tower of Der to grow.
  - Heard the thumping of the shadow's heart and found the door to the
    place beyond the world where the heart of darkness lies
  - Ate of entangled thoughts rising from the Tower of Der within her as
    she wandered the place beyond the world
  - As its strength was digested and became her own it whispered teeth
    into her that she may use them to create things
  - As the Tower of Der was built in her progeny it demanded home
    ascended above the door to the place beyond the world
  - The teeth given by the Tower of Der found purchase from her mind in
    Der's Path and in digesting the thought sought out to use this
    strength
  - Her and her mate searched along Der's path until coming to a place
    where it crossed to meet the water that it may meet the veins of Der

## Birth of the yellow

## Hunting of the yellow

## Rite of the traveller

## Rebirth

## Strand of the yellow

## The tooth's bargain
