In the beginning there was lord Ao with they that serve and through his
host Lord Ao ruled over all the great wheel for all time that mattered
but to craft crystal spheres that the great wheel may have method and
order. In these things He sought perfection of the highest sort that
only His mind may make wrought but time passes long for lord Ao. Though
the great wheel turned these crystal spheres endlessly toward perfection
that which came to them never truly changed and thus all was yet void.
Furious at His failure He smashed a great sphere with it chaos come unto
Him that in it He may find change. In this chaos he created first its
perfect adherents of change from timeless nothingness and created a home
in the abyss that it may be infinite so they shall never perish.
Unsatisfied with endless stability in that they would not seek
perfection he then crafted the nine hells and the domains of Celestia
that they would foster seek order and perfection among they that fit.
Lord Ao watched his creation and the dieties that sprung inside this
crystal sphere. As Toril was created by Selune and shar so did Lord AO
whisper into the spirit of Toril that it may have an embodiment that
should nurture agents of change thus to break the stalemate that His
great wheel may seek perfection in change. From this all things and
creator races were sprung which pleased Lord Ao. Many races seemed fit
to grace His creation but none so much as the last to spring of the
creator races of Toril, humans. Lord Ao called forth the destiny of
these small things and saw the true agents of change. From this day
forth Lord Ao declared as it always shall it be: "Where the races of man
shall walk, so shall strife follow in their footsteps, all made to
change before them or be laid under their path."
