Orders:

Red Lady -- Standard 1-10 RP, 3 traits

With the Storm High -- Advanced 11-20 RP 4 traits per category

Far and Deep -- Advanced 11-20 RP 4 traits per category

Superior -- Monstrous 20+ RP 5 traits per category

BASE

  - Type - Outsider (native) (3 RP) SubType - Half Undead (5 RP)
    
      - Darkvision 60
      - Eat, Breathe, Sleep
      - \+2 vs Disease and Mind-affecting effects
      - No penalties from energy-draining effects
      - after 24 hours all negative levels removed without additional
        saving throws
      - Inverted positive/negative energy effects

  - Size -- Small (0 RP)
    
      - \+1 Size bonus to AC
      - \+1 Size bonus Attack
      - \-1 CM Checks and -1 CMD
      - \+4 size bonus to stealth
      - space 5x5, reach 5'

  - Base Speed -- Normal (0 RP)
    
      - 30 ft

  - Ability score modifier -- Per race
    
      - Red Lady -- Standard (0 RP) - +2 Dex +2 Wisdom -2 Strength
        
          - As the first to contact the red lady this order has always
            been contemplative and orderly but lacked food for much of
            their formative development until gaining access to a dirt
            supply with which to grow materials for medicine and
            feedstock. As such their bloodline is weaker and most of
            their combat was martial owing to a severe lack of materials
            during their formant years.
    
      - With the Storm High -- Specialized (1 RP) - +2 Intelligence, +2
        Chrarisma, -2 Con
        
          - This bloodline was formed as a result of the far and deep's
            soldiers making war against the order of the superior. While
            raised initially by Far and Deep keepers these hybrids were
            eventually exiled from the army due to their predisposition
            to mental disorders. The collection of oddminds proved
            industrious and inventive but exceptionally isolated. They
            were the first to discover the place beyond the world and
            returned to the far and deep bearing different utility.
            Their proximity to the line and a new pragmatic benefactor
            left them in a position where little if any combat skills
            need to exist and the sheer number of passionate obsessives
            engaged with scholarly pursuits in large groups leave few if
            any resembling any sort of physical fitness. 
    
      - Far and Deep -- Greater Paragon (2 RP) - +4 Constitution, +2
        Strength, -2 Charisma
        
          - Originally a subset of the red lady dedicated wholly to the
            line their infrequent trips back to their home order and
            rapidly differentiating social goals left keepers
            intentionally selecting for the necessary factors of their
            survival. The unfortunate nature of the order of the
            superior's need to feed on suffering has hardened their
            souls leaving them cold and mirthless but indomitable. This
            race strongly tends toward having one axis of their
            alignment as neutral and more adamant beliefs are unusual as
            are is zelaotry of any sort.
    
      - Superior -- Advanced (4 RP) - +2 Str Dex Con, +4 Charisma, -2
        Wisdom
        
          - As some of the order of the red lady made contact with their
            namesake others wandered into a mind best left alone. That
            experience left their spirits diseased and bodies
            fundamentally altered. A coup by their charismatic leader's
            new infectious individuality nearly collapsed the order of
            the red lady's council before being driven off by the cadre
            of dedicated warriors that would later form the far and
            deep. Each member when born is a copy of their birth
            parent's consciousness in effect a dangerously psychotic
            warden of the soul that body is born with. This lack of
            insight into their own actions as well as others is shown in
            their nearly universal absence of empathy even if the body's
            expression of their soul warden's psychosis may vary.

  - Language quality - Xenophobic (0 RP) -- Children's Tongue
    
      - Bonus Languages -- Undercommon, Sylvan, Elven, Aklo

  - Weaknesses
    
      - **Vestigial Low light vision** - (-2) - As sunlight blindness
        but only while using low light vision and it remains until out
        of bright light
      - **Tethered Soul** - (-1) - Incapable of being resurrected into
        life or undeath by external agency unless Grandfather Teeth
        permits it or even so much as deigns to listen to a contact
        plane spell which it generally will not even acknowledge. Should
        Grandfather Teeth abandon its rights to the body and subsume the
        soul the body is otherwise a usable corpse that produces undead
        at bonus levels equal to the decedent's maximum spell level. If
        the heart and brain are not destroyed the body will resurrect as
        a Voidbrood on its own after 96 hours though it will not act
        until disturbed. Grandfather Teeth, at its option, may confine
        the spirit to the body and prevent the rise of a Voidbrood until
        the body is brought above -10 and made survivable to the soul.
        While so confined Grandfather Teeth's power acts as a continuous
        gentle repose spell and generally reserved for individuals it
        deems important in some great manner. Should the body be
        destroyed it does free the soul for reincarnation but earns
        Grandfather Teeth's enmity.

  - Racial Trait
    
      - **Heat Vision** - 1 RP - Requirement: Darkvision 60 ft --
        Replaces Darkvision. Adapted for acute binocular thermal vision
        the race can see heat output of the environment however for its
        benefits has several limitations. Heat vision pierces anything
        below total cover though not invisibility. Switching to heat
        vision is a swift action and turns a character's eyes flat black
        as retinas and irises pull away. Due to the canal behind their
        eyeballs Children cannot rotate them. They must be able to move
        their head to see something. Heat vision cannot see through most
        conventional clear glass or through water. Falling water, such
        as rain, causes concealment for everything behind it or
        blindness depending on how hard and where it is falling, and fog
        reduces visual range to 5'-15' depending on thickness. The
        character is incapable of reading anything with this vision if
        the nature of the writing does not provide thermal contrast.
        Sudden bursts of heat such as fireballs which do more than 3d6
        fire damage in a single round will cause dazzling for either one
        round per spell level or rounds equal to half the source's CR.
        If heat vision is off then aforementioned fire does not cause
        dazzling. Spells such as flash which involve a burst of light
        such as flare still affect those with heat vision as they are
        not blind and their retinas while not in use are still
        overstimulated. 
      - **Reincarnation** - This race's soul is reincarnated into a new
        body upon death if Grandfather Teeth releases it from the former
        body. The soul cannot be taken from the body but its local
        tether can be constrained. Spells like soul bind automatically
        fail as Grandfather Teeth already contains it but trap the soul
        will work as the binding between body and soul is intact even if
        sequestered. If the soul's new egg host is located before it
        gives birth and a resurrection, wish, or limited wish is cast on
        the egg it causes the character to emerge immediately as they
        died as per true resurrection. The druid spell reincarnation
        instead births the character as an adult mind in a new whelp's
        body. Locating the egg host requires a sample of the former body
        and their full name in order to cast locate creature or to
        contact grandfather teeth directly to ask for their return. The
        latter is likely to be unhealthy unless Grandfather Teeth or the
        Yellow has already demonstrated interest. The whelps of the Red
        Lady's Children are not born with feathers but thick hollow
        white hairs that make them look like a sopping pile of kelp then
        a white puffball once dried until 1 year of age when it falls
        out and they begin to grow feathers. While wet they have a +4
        camouflage bonus to stealth while in water due to looking like
        pale green seaweed and a -4 penalty when dry for their obvious
        color and form everywhere else.
      - **Dreamless** - The souls of Children of the Red Lady do not
        truly dream. A construct of the spirit wanders to occupy the
        sleeping body for a time until the spirit wakes. When sleeping
        their body instead spawns an astral traveler looking as if made
        of stained glass on a random coterminous plane. Should they be
        touching other characters that do dream an object will be
        present inside the dreamer's dream that when used in some manner
        summons the Glimmer. Once the glimmer exists whenever it moves
        it does so at the character's maximum sprint speed. While
        Glimmer are not intelligent they are impulsive in a manner that
        reflects the owner while sharing their physical characteristics
        except for their immediate mundane possessions. Should any
        immediate possessions have the ghost-touch enchantment, be a non
        intelligent magical item bound to the character, or otherwise
        able to be naturally manipulated by incorporeal beings then
        mundane ectoplasmic copies manifest into the glimmer's
        possession. Such ectoplasmic copies have identical non-magical
        characteristics though they vanish after 1 turn if separated
        from the Glimmer. Should the Glimmer by destroyed or be
        otherwise incapacitated from moving the sleeping character wakes
        immediately, destroying the Glimmer. The waking character
        thereafter remembers the experience of a roaming Glimmer as if
        it were a dream. This race cannot sleep in any area subject to a
        dimensional lock, antimagic fields, any other effect that bars
        extradimensional travel, or disrupts scrying.

  - Natural weapons (2 RP) -- unarmed weapons are considered slicing and
    piercing weapons, not bludgeoning and while lethal do not count as
    natural weapons and provoke attacks of opportunity unless otherwise
    trained.
    
      - 2 x Claws 
      - 1 Bite
      - 2 x Toe claws 

Traits

  - Red Lady ( 8 RP ) + 3 = 11 RP
    
      - Gliding Wings - (3 RP) - Glide 60, drop 1 ft per 5 ft

  - With the storm high ( 9 RP) + 10 = 18
    
      - Flight - (4 RP) - Fly 30, Clumsy
      - Focused Study - (4 RP) - Skill focus at 1st, 8<sup>th</sup>, and
        16<sup>th</sup>
      - Magical Linguist - (2 RP) - +1 DC for language-dependent spells,
        +2 Racial versus language dependent spells, CHA 11+ 1/day Arcane
        Mark, Comprehend Languages, Message, Read Magic

  - Far and Deep (10 RP) + 10 = 20 RP 
    
      - Ancient Foe - (3 RP) - Order of the superior - +2 dodge AC, +2
        racial bonus CMD
      - Mirthless Enforcer - (2 RP) - +2 racial bonus to sense motive,
        diplomacy DC checks to affect their opinion by those not of
        their subrace increase by their charisma bonus (minimum -2).
        Sense motive racial bonus increases to +4 vs those entrusted to
        their protection.
      - Spell resistance, Lesser - (2 RP) -- SR = 6 + character level 
      - Gliding Wings - (3 RP) - Glide 60, drop 1 ft per 5 ft

  - Superior (12 RP) + 16 = 28 RP
    
      - Cornered Fury (4 HP) -- When less than half hit points and no
        allies within 30 ft +2 racial bonus to melee attack rolls and +2
        armor bonus
      - Spell like ability, at will (4 HP) -- Spider Climb, 20 climb
        speed
      - Fast (2 RP) +20 movement
      - Swarming (1 RP) - up to 2 racial allies in the same square,
        Flanking if allies are in the same square.
      - Claws (1 RP \[see above\]) -- Two claw attacks, primary natural
        weapons
      - Natural Armor - (2 RP) - +1 natural armor bonus
      - Natural weapon - (2 RP) Spines, 1d3, do damage upon any
        successful grapple or with any bull rush attack.

Sorcerer Bloodline - Yellow

These are children of the pernicious entity known throughout the
Children's history as the Yellow, or informally as Nyx. The yellow is
continuously reincarnated without suffering loss, displacing a soul from
its egg host at will in favor of herself or on death, but suffers no
dilution of her bloodline or power as she leaves broods in her wake. As
such her children are known to have curious properties should they
survive at fledgling as the yellow only suffers those of blood relation
to live past fledgling that kill her current body. The yellow's progeny
is very strongly female and while males may exist they will be sterile.
Females of her bloodline among the first generation are known to be
capable of producing half-breeds with nearly any species but subsequent
generations will not as the children will inherit some of the
non-children characteristics and be incompatible with either parent
species -- even other first generation children of the yellow. Thus
yellow lineages are generally shallow in nature. They nonetheless can
enjoy a significant status due to their innate power and parentage
except with the Far and Deep whom deeply object to their taking of any
leadership roles anywhere in the Children's society.

Class skill: Spellcraft

Bonus spells

  - 3 - Disguise Self 
  - 5 - Seducer's Eyes
  - 7 - Blood Biography
  - 9 - Bestow Curse
  - 11 - Contact Other Plane 
  - 13 - Geas/Quest
  - 15 - Scrying, Greater
  - 17 - Demand
  - 19 - Dominate Monster

Bonus Feats:

  - Craft Wondrous Item
  - Skill focus (Spellcraft)
  - Eldritch Claws
  - Intimidating Prowess
  - Arcane Strike
  - Minor Spell expertise
  - Spell Perfection

**Bloodline Arcana** 

While the yellow's bloodline is heavy on the spirit it does not impinge
on the mind directly but remains a strong taint on the blood itself.
Spells or abilities with the evil descriptor are subject to an Extended
metamagic effect. A minimal amount of the character's own saliva or
blood satisfies an unholy water or devil's blood material requirement
for spells though neither strongly enough to produce effects on their
own. The magic of the Yellow's bloodline is particularly visceral with
the Yellow's link to Losthome and spells of her progeny usually involve
purely visual components presenting with spells. Spells cast by others
on them may have visual components similarly manifesting spontaneously
though they sometimes result in undesirable changes. Any abnormal
physical changes separated from their caster degrade into their true
form by evaporating blue ectoplasm. May use concentration for
Lostcrafting without being trained in that use of the skill.

Bloodline Powers

**Ire (Su)** - Bruises begin to appear, muscles creak in complaint, and
old doubts crawl into the mind as slow-boiled menace that suffuses the
Yellow's lineage reaches out through the mind to rail against foes.

At 1<sup>st</sup> level the character can use a targeted gaze with a
swift action to cause 1 subdual damage for every even caster level
beyond the 1st. It is a mind-affecting ranged touch attack that provokes
attacks of opportunity with a range of 30 feet and willpower save equal
to 10 + ½ sorcerer class levels + charisma bonus to negate. The target
must be both conscious and have been aware of the gaze at some point
though the target need not be looking at the caster to suffer Ire
thereafter though the caster must be able to see or hear the target
while concentrating for ire until the target leaves the caster's range,
saves, loses consciousness, or dies. If the target saves against the
gaze the creature may not be a target again for 24 hours. All intimidate
checks against targets gain a profane bonus equal to the number of
rounds they spent under ire that day.

**Yellow's Suture (Sp) **- The Yellow's bloodline is particularly
tenacious in drawing strength from non-material planes if not to the
same degree as their mother creature. The character can force their body
to heal faster or suture others with it using the Grandfather Teeth's
power. In either case a suture must first fade before another can be
applied. After 10<sup>th</sup> level If the character is in a
non-material plane they age at a tenth of their normal speed.

At 3<sup>rd</sup> level the character may use Infernal Healing on any
creature once per day per creature and take 1d4 damage. At
9<sup>th</sup> level the greater variant can be used but the caster take
2d4 damage afterward. At 11<sup>th</sup> level the character gains Fast
Healing 1 while in partial shade or darkness and may use their Ire
ability to transfer subdual then lethal damage from herself to another
target instead of just causing subdual damage. At 15<sup>th</sup> level
subdual, lethal, then one temporary ability damage per hour may be
transferred with the ire ability.

**Keymaster (Su)** - Grandfather Teeth is not deaf to the Yellow's
progeny and they inherit some of the rights of its servant Yellow's keys
to the realm. 

At 9<sup>th</sup> level the caster's mind is an obstinate thing always
transiently lucid while their body is recovering and may overtake their
Glimmer at will. As a result they become immune to sleep and confusion
effects. Overtaking their glimmer leaves a gelatinous pile of
evaporating ectoplasm at their previous location and causes enough
subdual damage to result in immediate unconsciousness. Thus care must be
taken for the exact moment the caster takes control. At 13<sup>th</sup>
level once per week the character can access the underworks from any
active gate or portal. As well as by way of the underworks access any
other active gate or portal they have already passed through whether
coplanar with the underworks or not. Gates or portals that would now be
locked to them are still so but any actions that must be taken without
needing the physical access can be done at the proxy portal. This
external sense of their location and the way home persists at all times
unless under a dimensional lock or like effects and they gain a bonus to
survival equivalent to half their class level as well as the ability to
use Find the Path 1/day. At 17<sup>th</sup> level the character may use
teleport per day equal to their charisma bonus but only to places they
have already been.

**Millstone (Sp) --** Grandfather Teeth's power can be used to consume
the energy supporting souls of the living to craft it into useful tools.
Though Losthome itself is a world full of such power in physical form it
is far less forgiving in nature. The caster is the axle upon which the
millstone will turn to grind away power from the source. In Losthome the
form is predetermined and cannot be functionally altered until the
figment is first consumed into a real object. 

At 1<sup>st</sup> level the character may make immaterial objects such
as those possessed by ghosts or found in Losthome into real items they
can take into the material plane with them. Lostcrafting skills were
discovered by some rare Twitch that frequent Losthome and other Yellow
bloodlines. Concentration checks are used to make a Losthome object real
as a crafting check to the object's value without materials other than
time. At 9<sup>th</sup> level the character can consume magical
non-artifact items to gain access to their power as an interior magical
item slot. The caster must be otherwise able to use the item to consume
it. Such consumed magical items cannot be thereafter removed from the
caster. If a new item is consumed the old one is replaced entirely. The
caster will also lose one day of apparent age, unless it would make them
immature, for each day they spend in Losthome, dream planes, or the
astral plane as the millstone gnaws at the spiritual plane underneath
them. At 15<sup>th</sup> level the character can pay magical item
creation costs with up to 1/10th of a creature's XP (or by its CR value)
toward GP creation cost of either an intelligent living creature under
their control or one that is willing. The appraise skill may be used for
purposes of determining a creature's worth under the millstone. All XP
costs from item creation must be paid by the caster. Only one creature
can be used for a crafting check at one time and if a creature is used
other sources of materials may not be. The process utterly destroys the
creature shredding the remains of its soul into Grandfather Teeth
rendering all unspent XP unusable. The crafting check still consumes the
normal amount of time required for the craft check but until the
crafting is done the creature underneath Grandfather Teeth's millstone
can only suffer, not die, no matter how much damage it has sustained.
Unlike normal magic item creation the task is continuous until it is
finished and if the caster is prevented from staying awake or
concentrated on their task the millstone will break and the creature
will die wasting the half-created item. All items created from this kind
of grinding murder of creatures detects as evil from a taint that can be
camouflaged but never removed. A wish, limited wish, or miracle can undo
the damage to a millstoned body but only the direct intervention of a
Deity, another evil being to pay souls in kind, or sufficient bargain
with Grandfather Teeth will return what remains of the soul. Such a
returned soul will have a haunt centered on their person and the item
until the offending item is destroyed. The full name as known by the
creature or its true name must be known for Grandfather Teeth to find
the former creature in order to pour in spirit remnants to repair the
wounded soul. Speak with the dead and like abilities that interrogate
inert corpses can only impart horrified screaming about metal teeth
unless they went willingly.

**Aspect (Su) -** At 20<sup>th</sup> level the character has become
capable of being a true servant of Grandfather Teeth accessing a small
portion of his awareness and power. The power drains all pigment from
the character leaving them a cream-colored feathery albino. Even the
nails and teeth are a pale yellow except for their blue quicks, blue
flesh, and deep cobalt eyes. The character gains Telepathy 30 ft,
Immunity to compulsion spells, Immunity to sneak attacks, and DR
10/Poison.
