The traveler refers to the biotechnology inherited by the blue-blooded
red lady's children and the yellow. The nanotech is primarily energy
construct in origin but has a biologically sourced design purpose. A
good portion of the material was shaped by influence from the machine as
their forays into Losthome and eating things inevitably exposes them to
minute parts of the machine. In time the egg hosts began to inherit some
of these parts and the blue-blooded arose as a result of accumulation of
these parts in their metabolic processes. Those that are not blue
blooded have comparatively crude versions lacking any central control by
the mind or otherwise. The crude versions in those red lady's children
not blue-blooded are used strictly in place of red blood cells, organ
function, vision, and some portions of the immune system.

## Components

The traveler is composed of a number of common parts that work together
to form an operating whole. It can manufacture specialized equipment to
meet needs as decided by the network.

### Static components

#### Operating Nodes

Square structures attached to physical mounting points within the body
function as the processing centers of the traveler. Each can manifest
one worker on their own without a calcium core but it only functions in
proximity to the node. They are physically wired to transceivers and
found in their proximity. In the brain operating nodes are connected by
both splices and transceivers. Each generally contains a backup of
essential structures so that the whole can rebuild itself as long as the
host and a small group of nodes are intact.

#### Archives

Data storage of the traveler. In a host with a core most of the archives
are stored there. But there is a lot of redundant data stored elsewhere
in the body to avoid having to use a great deal of bandwidth from a
central location as well as ensuring redundancy.

#### Loom

Smaller node-sized discs that function the same as the quilt does but
generally only deals in the rapid fabrication of workers or parts of
other structures to effect repair.

#### Conduit

This is little more than a bio plastic cable used to transmit data
digitally between transceivers.

#### Core

A macro-scale organ found in the red lady's children that functions as
their heart and the fortress of the traveler. It is a continuous flow
pump that maintains a constant blood pressure without crushing the small
and delicate equipment of the traveler inside the bloodstream. The
remainder of the Y shaped heart deals with robust archival and operating
structures and regulates a great deal of the traveler as workers pass
through the heart.

#### Transceiver

Sliver sized units that comprise the main telecommunications backbone of
the traveler. They often have physical cabling connecting high transit
areas such as the spine, arms, or to a core. They generally are
surrounded by splices so the traveler can use the host's own neural
network to pass data between them or to the host themselves. This
involves a lot less effort on their part as the terahertz transmissions
at their scale requires a disproportionate amount of energy per unit
distance without a cable stretched between them.

#### Quilt

This is a larger assembly unit capable of constructing nodes. They are
visible to the naked eye and if exposed are about the size of sand
grains. The main floor of the assembly unit operates much like a ovoid
rapid fabrication unit in that the desired equipment is sown together
layer by layer.

#### Splice

These mount in, on, or next to a neuron to interact with the body
depending on location or detailed purpose. Generally the brain has
splice throughout but mostly in the frontal lobe. Sensory organs are
usually spliced directly at the source then relayed to the traveler. As
with such segregation the traveler does not often have the recursive
sense of the host's interpretation of their observed environment without
expressly communicating with them.

### Motile components

#### Workers

Actuated components which move stored data, other parts, or physical raw
materials that the Traveler needs. Their substance is of a calcium core
that manifests adaptive tooling that the worker needs and a basic field
structure to protect the core. They take on scouting tasks forming the
basis of the traveler's awareness of the body as the operating nodes
themselves have no sensory systems whatsoever.

#### Transport

Altered workers built to transport fluids or larger quantities of raw
materials while segregating them from exposure to the host bloodstream.

#### Aggressors

Modified robust workers with hardened systems and physical weaponry.
Generally equipped with calcium spikes that they use to physically
damage bacteria or alter other solid foreign substances in the body.
Some are equipped with short range energy emission devices in hosts with
a greater traveler.

## 

## Systems

Certain major systems are found in the traveler but only take defined
nodes in segregated roles in greater travelers. The names in the greater
traveler are inherited from the same systems that exist in the machine.

### ICI - Identification Component or Intruder

This major subsystem deals with identifying what is or is not part of
the host functioning much like an immune system. As such all aggressors
are under its control. Unlike its biological contemporaries ICI's
determination for this is very mutable and the host's awareness of a
particular influence strongly effects immune response regardless of any
inherent threat to the host by that intrusion. ICI is split into three
major sections: Psi, the portion that provides defense and
identification of anomalous patterns within the host mind; Host, which
largely concerns itself with the body's interior such as allergens,
inert foreign bodies, or infections; and self, which identifies that the
traveler is free from tampering, masquerading entities, or foreign
traveler equipment. ICI makes all determinations whether a given object
should be treated as a hostile object but the host abstraction can
override the determination.

### GIS - Global Infrastructure Synthesis

This subsystem operates all loom and quilt in the entire swarm to field
manufacturing requests. It maintains the blueprints inside all archive
nodes as well as maintaining knowledge of the amount of each in use and
manufacturing throughput of all manufactured parts for the backup node.
It maintains stocks of materials or knowledge of their source as well as
looking after rates of change in the aforementioned to handle their
dynamic environment. It has a limited knowledge of host biology to
maintain its supplies and notifies the host abstraction when they are
low.

GIS will use any blueprint with identical performance characteristics to
the purpose within a design and select them at random. This both
increases functional diversity that it is unlikely the same threat or
damage vector will produce failures in all portions of the swarm. If a
particular design preforms identically but is no longer of similar
population GIS will manufacture more of that design to ensure balance
until EDH makes a new assessment of the blueprint's fitness for
function.

### WAI - Ward Adaptive Integrator

As their native environment has a great deal of magical influences and
dangers this subsystem deals in creating, adapting, or interpreting new
magical or biochemical influences. It especially deals in adapting the
host and the traveler to extreme changes in function if it is shifted in
Losthome. Â If unique or unknown influences are present this system
determines their inherent properties and utility using sense nodes or
the host abstraction to acquire data. As a hostility-neutral system WAI
interprets all objects based on their interaction on the system and may
inadvertently neutralize ICIs determinations in the natural course of
its duties. WAI also deals in re-purposing of existing tools given the
discovery of re-purposed threats and determining new properties based on
these influences. The system as such represents the majority of the
traveler's long-term adaptability and self-improvement. WAI also is
responsible for the translation of blueprints and data streams between
traveler swarms as well serving as the primary conduit of enabling swarm
access to host abilities.

### EDH - Error Detection and Handling

This system handles the most data from the host abstraction in
determining the amount of damage the host has sustained or any
malfunctioning parts. It is integrated tightly throughout the system and
collates a comparatively massive amount of sense data to determine
system wide statistics and conditions. It determines discrete components
to entire assemblies then tasks WAI with determining the proper state
for these assemblies to be maintained in. EDH has priority access to all
workers and aggressors. It is the only other major system with near
immediate access to aggressors. ICI self maintains a very large presence
in EDH to ensure it operates without corruptible influence. EDH nodes
are present throughout the host in a non-centralized fashion to harden
against tampering.

ICI-self follows behind EDH nodes wherever GIS builds them throughout
the body. In that sense ICI-self builds nodes only in places where EDH
determines there are things that can break that it needs to maintain.

EDH also has a limited adaptive capacity like WAI but it is entirely
based on creating alternative patch blueprints to triage damage within
the body. It marks these nodes as 'dirty' where ICI then later orders
them reconstructed when there is no longer threats to continue damage.
WAI sometimes overrides this, acquiring local authority over it, to
continue collecting data from the altered equipment if WAI determines
known properties have changed in a manner that creates new behavior. WAI
will often then submit superior patches or altered equipment builds for
GIS to select when constructing an ideal piece of equipment for a given
task.

### SLT - Self/Local Telemetry

This system aggregates information from workers, the host, and any
specialized equipment nodes. The information once compiled is recorded
with the time it was observed as the swarm processes the information in
bursts and not as live streams. Individual work groups for a particular
aggregation of data streams are often given a generic host concept to
conform to the host's structures. In humans these work groups would be
labeled SENSE if the host is aware of the concept.

SLT's processing and archival core is primarily located near splices in
the occipital and temporal lobes inside a human host mind. The system
compiles stored information frames into streams by performing the work
on the host themselves to more ideally render the information into
useful and understandable meta data. The host mind will eventually
tolerate the presence of these information streams and studied effort
may allow the host to directly access them. If the host is exposed to
complete silence this processing is likely to become sensory
hallucinations as a conscious mind seeks stimulation. If SLT is deprived
of this host access processing time and swarm efficiency goes down as
the amount of streams the traveler can analyze is far lower than the
central nervous system in an organic host and lacks large quantities of
useful meta data.

This part of the traveler has the largest splice and archive to
operating node count of any other system and stores large quantities of
throughout the host.

### Auth

### CCG

## Major Nodes

Some node identifiers remain the same between travelers for the odd
occurrence that they interact.

  - Node 0 - Host
  - Node 3 - GIS
  - Node E - Damage Planning
  - Node G - Journal
  - Node K - Backup Grid
  - Node 10 - ICI Psi
  - Node 11 - ICI Self
  - Node 12 - ICI Host
  - Node 13-1B - Intruder monitoring
  - Node 3A - Host-side swarm abstraction
  - Node 2p - Power monitoring
