Szazz Tam
=========

It is observed that the Red Wizards have a efficient production and materials base from which to build their power. Vast quantities of unwilled subordinates are acquired by water providing easy mass labor resources. Other resources such as mined resources have been exhausted in areas but various mountain locations provide ample resources. Mass unwilled labor combined with ample resources and the existing culture enforcing the recruitment of mage users enables mass manufacture of magic items by Thay. This also has produced vast quantities of labs for easily accessible exotic materials manufacture. Various types of sentients and subsentients are easily imprisoned for use as reagent sources by the large mage population.

The following are planar coordinates for various relevant locations relative to current sphere bearer\'s lab.

-   Szazz Tam\'s fortress:3036.496, 9620.045, 1069.2003, 1228.2610, 526.2318.
-   Szazz Tam\'s main lab:956.1236, 1488.360, 2580.2797, 725.2993.
-   Szazz Tam\'s Magehold: 1138.1603, 2314.1800, 2978.1684, 2431.1973

Large proportions of wizards in the population vastly increases the amount of magic items being exported and Thay is likely to become the sole provider of magic items in the near future. Despite the inferior quality of the vast quantities items it nonetheless requires a large amount of free acolytes that could be made available to construct needed facilities of larger scale. Thay would therefore have the to implement various mythals that would facilitate a power base of further efficiency toward the interests of a sphere bearer.

Military resources are well organized and battle tested through expansion efforts that are currently idle. This is likely due to regrouping of power but recent enough as to not diminish effectiveness. The nation known as Thay has a division of battle mages that is exceedingly well trained and is very effective. This also effects creation of land armies upon decimation of targets. Training in mass necromancy rituals would further increase their effectiveness. Living land units are mostly shock troops and reused upon death forming the other majority of soldiers.

The power and governmental structures preclude ineptness in living servants as gross ineptitude is punishable by death with suitable inefficiencies made useful through reagents or necromancy. Szazz Tam is very diligent in observing underlings suspected of incompetence vastly increasing their effectiveness through force. Fiefdoms are not tolerated as attempts are met with such force inhibiting overindulgence leading to inattentiveness to duty. Highly regimented duty assignments to workers are handed out in clearly defined roles that prevent inefficient application of effort by subordinates. Should unwanted political struggles emerge from subordinates attempting to breach defined structure in their assigned roles all related parties that participated in the action would be terminated. Though successful seizure of roles outside their purview is tolerated if it efficiently deals with a unassigned use of duties in that control structure does not need to exert effort should the seizure of duties produce further unwanted inefficiency all involved parties are replaced. Over time the power structure has become solid despite human life spans and mage libraries and magic information in general is well maintained making decisions unlikely to be improper and thus inefficient ones relative to current knowledge. Improvements to minor failures are well handled and any large scale changes are unarguable preventing unwanted discussion of methodology and continuous improvement is both expected of all offices in areas defined as under their control.

Various weapons are in use by Thay due to their large resources and often of fairly high magic strength. Most among this is the extensive use of magic and undead troops though the undead are often of high quantity and low quality. The ease of manufacture reduces the impact of long term wars but this is debatable in comparison to manufactured undead of high quality and proper equipment. Summoned extra planar beings of high power are rare

though high power for efficient use on point as formation breaches. Also of moderate strength are constructs that are commonly used as fortification breaches. Their construction methods are primitive and they continue to use inferior binding methods to contain the elementals used as power sources. With the magic items of high number heavy protection of otherwise fragile undead is enabled. Conventional armor types are often used for undead however; though this uses little resources providing minimal protection. Deadwraps are much more resilient and allow for high agility maneuvers. It requires a high skill to achieve with any consistency. This can be rectified with undead servitors that are directly adapted for this purpose. Magic weaponry used by living troops are often bound to the individual to inhibit use by enemies as is tattoo magic increasing their usefulness in comparison to undead while limiting the weapon\'s utility to the enemy upon their death. High magic weapons are unheard of most likely due to the excessive information loss that resulted from the activities leading up to weave ban. It is likely they do not possess the information for ritual applications of such high magic or have not yet perfected it to utility. For purposes of general use high magic weaponry is considered above 9th circle though modern convention of high magic weapons are used as wands of the 6th through 9th circle. Metamagic scrolls and items are created by some exceedingly strong magi for defensive purposes of labs.

Troops are plentiful in Thay due to the recent wars and thusly are widely variated and in efficient skill. Undead are frequently used as disposable troops of low consideration and they include skeletons of medium size and amalgamate construction sourced from battle dead or local creature populations. Unconfirmed rumors in the black market say that materials for dracoskeletons have been procured and I have been unable to confirm the assertions. Living troops are estimated to be as prolific as undead troops and include foot bound soldiers of questionable skill, dragon rider battlemages of obvious skill, and large trained animals for transport and various siege uses. Exceedingly large amounts of mage subordinates allow for the rapid summoning of outsiders of varied types for use in battles including elementals of various types, planar beings, Demons, Devils, and mundane constructs.

Longevity of they is fairly uncertain due to various factors of their history and societal behavior. Thay is as much likely to withstand time as it is to be crushed by its neighbors for internal disputes not suited to building power. Internal power struggles may tear apart the nation as various attempts at political maneuvers attempting to place inferior living beings in positions of absolute power. Repeated elimination of subordinates limits the effectiveness of traitors as much as it prevents any semblance of sustainable loyalty. These factors result in that should Szazz Tam be destroyed the nation itself may be in question as human mages unsuited for the position of leader attempt to fill the political vacuum.

Mages in any significant number forming a magocracy often have forms of aberrant behavior that is more a detriment to my needs than it is suited to them. The history of Thay has proven overtly aggressive but Szazz Tam shows restraint since he has taken power two centuries hence. Whether Szazz Tam can resolve the overtly hostile behavior unsuited for a reliable power base remains to be seen. Endless self-destructive habits contrary to the gain of the whole are perpetrated by the society but those furthering those aims are responsive to order through force if often lethal and removing the skill of tools available to the power base.

Little patience. Various groups within the wizards of Thay have been making clear and overt efforts to dominate. This is not suited to my needs.

It is my determination that Szazz tam is not suitable as a sphere bearer for the following: Sazz Tam may prove worthwhile in the short term as sphere bearer but his relative inexperience as a lich compared to the current sphere bearer may be destructive to his resources, giving information to Szazz Tam may fall into the hands of the opposition upon death as his ability to contain information within subordinates is questionable, and Szazz Tam may intake information and make a failed attempt to destroy me which would necessitate that he be destroyed as I cannot serve the sphere bearer in such condition and that would bring unwanted attention upon myself.

Thieves of Amn
==============

The largest thieves guild on the continent of Faerun with guilds in every major city with a population over 4000 comprising one of the largest black markets. Their power base is predominantly along the sword coast where a majority of the assassin training facilities are located.

The following are planar coordinates for various relevant locations relative to current sphere bearer\'s lab.

-   Last known guild stronghold: 7121.1819, 1378.8997, 109.1922, 1964.6911
-   dropoff point:4799.1522, 6108.8799, 1464.465, 7340.6966
-   Location of conjugate gate "Sasha":6526.4529, 6989.1207, 4892.777, 5484.3116

These vast black markets are well-suited to clandestine operation and a great deal of illegal material is funneled through here to distant nations. Though humans are short lived exceedingly proficient transient leaders emerge by self-selection. Only the leaders able to avoid being assassinated can hold the position of guild master for long. This self-selected skill has enabled the current guild master to remain for some time and may prove long lived within a normal human lifespan. Once the current guild master is assassinated or is too old to hold position the second in command will take over that is equally capable. Selection method is amenable to my methods. Even with the ephemeral leadership there always remains possible access to any required materials given time as it is rare for any guild master to discriminate between resources. Guilds with fences are of great resource and capability and existing relations allow for private access. Favors owed to me would prove useful in acquiring direct power within the guild in order to choose a sphere bearer from the available leaders..Stockpiles of various seized goods from tributing raiders provide a possibly beneficial variety to usable goods often of extreme rareness otherwise. It is possible to obtain access to bodies and other materials illegal to access by other power bases as well as the guild employing various groups assigned to exploring ruins for artifacts. To facilitate disconnection of the supplier various crypts have been assigned to dumping of bodies where necromancers can retrieve fresh bodies and remit payment to the guild as a gift. All guild halls are kept similarly clandestine largely preventing interference by unwanted power bases.

Guild masters maintain a wide variety of weapons suited to high efficiency at distinct activities in assigned guild tasks. Common weapons of choice are poisons are of wide variety and would be suitable for use in my capabilities. Various guild members are already proficient in the use of assassins as weaponry enabling my skills to be efficiently used. Guild members have no compunctions against necromantic methods and would be amenable to my increasing the sphere bearer\'s power through black art. Few thieves participate in such activities but are known to assist those that do in trade for various guild services that the mages derive. There are as many mage assassins as assassinating mages whom do not interfere with the other type of guild members. Most weapons are of the mundane type however as conspicuously powerful weaponry is unsuited to the guild goal of clandestine operation.

The thieves guild has no troops and completely lacks a war capability though high members do take occasional contracts for specific targets in them. Assassins and various mercenary thieves are most proficient at their duties but are more suited to one on one combat and stealth tasks. There is a division of high combat assassins but they are used for dealing with enemies or those working against the guild\'s goals. Their needs are similar to my own and will follow the orders of the guild regardless of leader or orders. Various bandit groups are at the guild\'s disposal to harry movements of troops against them though this is rarely used as to avoid the attention of nation-states. Even with the controlled application of force a few mercenary groups are kept paid for use in more overt methods should stealthy applications require unreasonable resources. The loyalty of these mercenary groups are questionable but rarely make enemies of the guild. They nonetheless cannot be trusted with precious information and may need to be erased should they fail.

All leaders and a vast majority of the resources of the guild are transient humans. This both limits their personal skill and potential threat due to long-term plans. Leaders are assassinated on a regular basis as they age providing a fairly consistent leadership of the same personality. Any wide exposure generally results in the destruction of the local guild by guild authorities. This makes my capture an unwanted possibility that may reduce resources though authorities often lack the necessary force to retain me for any length of time.

Generally the guild is poorly distributed authority and exercises little control at low ranks. Extreme behavior favors individual effort over the needs of the whole. This localized effort is not conducive to fortified positions resulting in any threat to fortification a high possibility of loss. Habits among a majority of mid-rank guild members is often driven by greed for trinkets of little inherent worth and personal status. The guild indulges the habits of its members in this regard in order to retain resources of otherwise high quality. The temporary leadership and limited concerted effort has a organizational effect of a desire for power without a long-term plans of any real significance. Though this does limit their exposure to other such plans of other power bases it often results in poor utilization of my capabilities.

The suitability of this organization for my needs is determined to be poor. The following reasons determine this limitation in utility: The complete lack of standing army is problematic, inhibiting some of my more efficient uses, even though this could be rectified the leadership for war is nonexistent;.though well suited for clandestine operation, preventing my exposure to various mage groups, their lack of commitment to their resources raises strategic concerns; Unable to fortify and defend a position against a nation army; well suited to current task of acquiring black market resources and clandestine acquisition of regular resources or personnel but their over-market resource requirements are inhibiting to my efficiency; and the ghost will need to be unaware of the bonding to facilitate the acquiring of a sphere bearer which the ghost would be otherwise make difficult.

Chern
=====

The location of the Chern plane is unknown. It was encountered at the nexus known as safe haven. The ghost had to be restrained from the entry point as it was assumed to be a potentially dangerous location and it would not serve the Sphere bearer\'s interest to be captured. As of this time the Chern plane will not be investigated further as it poses too much a threat to do so.

Resources of the leading authority of Chern appear to be vast and similar in strength to the height of Netheril. As such the society seems to be very high magic and a blood magic of necromancy seems to be present in some form. Magic items appear to be easily constructed as it was in Netheril and their presence is likely ubiquitous. Their history is as long as the elves and thus have acquired a similarly large quantity of magic while having no apparent restraint in its weaponization. This could be a useful resource for further development.

Though primarily magical weaponry is used an apparent use of mundane weaponry is preferred. This is likely due to the focus on magically amplified abilities and exceedingly long lives to produce soldiers of proficiency. Mundane weaponry is used for unknown reasons though it is likely it is to offset the apparently large casting time for any offensive spell of substance. There does not appear to be any metamagic knowledge that would increase casting time beyond that of any possible offensive maneuver by mundane weaponry for a mage with similarly augmented capabilities. Self-destructive magic is used and efficiently despite known magic of Aber-Toril limiting its effectiveness. There may be some structurally difference in biology or true name structure that enables efficient transfer of energy directly from the spirit.

Already of a long history it is likely that any possible societal influences that would produce self-destruction have been dealt with in the near-term. Known denizen purports to be extremely long lived though he does not appear to be fully human. Deep analysis is infeasible unless the known member self-destructs so properly identifying race via vivisection is unlikely though it may be possible to cause the member to self-destruct due to recent activities. This same former member of the state appears to come from a deeply entrenched power structure due to penalty of failure having no apparent consequence on the state.

Chernese behavior is based on third-party information but I will nonetheless speculate based on information the ghost has acquired. There is a strong likelihood of possible deity influence or mass-charm effects among the subordinates or populous. I will assume given such materials were among the first devices pioneered by the Netheril city-states that such devices may already be in operation. The state itself may take on the hubris of a deity to serve needs in keeping its workers deeply in line without any allowance for reason to inhibit the performing of duties that may be unsuitable to societal norms. Further, this is made more made likely by an admission by the society member that there is no priesthood hierarchy as obedience is made through threat of force by city-state as well direct order of \'deity\'. If it is in fact a deity the deity may be able to be bargained with directly and subverting the Chernese state\'s will. Political structure in the Chern state is unknown but likely self-destructive given unreasonable error tolerance that damages potentially useful resources..

It is determined that the Chern state may be useful for a sphere bearer but may prove more trouble than is needed. As no apparent ban on high-circle magic is present it may be possible to usurp the power of the god the Chernese purport to follow. This would preclude resistance from the Chernese government while providing minimal risk as long as a secure position can be located for spell research. Determined to be unusable due to unwanted entrenched worldwide power structure that may prove difficult to enter as well the power structure seems to destroy on failure rather than adapt. Avoidance of notice by the entire plane is best at the present time. The ghost will can not be allowed to be aware of situations that may attract its attention and thus bring notice to the sphere-bearer without prior notice. All information regarding Chern has been wiped from the ghost. Elimination of remaining information may prove difficult. Remaining information is within apparent enemy of Chern state. Determined to be a low threat due to lack of resources to a worldwide state. If the information proves dangerous to be in possession of the enemy of Chern state then I will leak information to the Chern state that will facilitate erasing their enemy from existence on that plane.

Fey
===

The Fey appear to be located on the western continent of the plane. This continent has been scarred by war, though recently repaired through magic means, and a vast majority of fey previously living there were eliminated in the previous war. Their heavily fortified capital location has proven difficult to directly estimate without arising suspicion. As to avoid what is suspected as sensory methods for astral travel only passive estimation was used.

The following are planar coordinates for various relevant locations relative to current sphere bearer\'s lab.

-   Location of nexus known as Safe Haven:24638.48921, 34594.2536, 20323.31003, 31826.23425
-   Estimate of fey capital:3782.24090, 14043.23461, 34875.44299, 311.7339
-   Estimate of planar location inside fey capital:34527.15915, 27956.27859, 5850.16144, 4827.13023

Most magic and resources of the fey seem to be derived to a similar source to the fey on Aber-Toril though the two species do not appear to share a common ancestry. The Fey appear to have high magic resources which include weapons of mass destruction. Spells above mystra\'s ban on the 9th circle seem to be available here and this may prove very useful. What little history the ghost has encountered appears to suggest that the fey are quite proficient with high magic though it seems to have a focus on either life or elemental magic. Offensive high magic resources are confirmed to the ghost\'s travel through wasteland areas. Blighted land seems to have been a side effect of the weapons used by the humans that produced residue of rotlight from the high alchemical weaponry. The Fey do appear to be excellent strategists due to a purported long lifespan as the ghost examined a hybrid fey-human from which new patterns were used are stable in the long-term as some adaption based on them have proved such. To my knowledge have successfully harassed humans without genuine reprisal so strategic resources may be extremely high even in established lands of other nation-states. The current leader\'s dedication to the whole seems to waver but nonetheless seems exceedingly intelligent as much as observant as the ghost\'s stay proved that they are amenable to providing privacy without actually doing so though this may be due to my foreign nature and what else is in my proximity. Habits precluding amenable contact with humans have produced a relatively pure race for use by state despite apparent compatibility with the humans. This allows the populous to be used as an apparent generally aligned a whole that likely proves a good resource to resist intelligence operations by humans. Humans and fey find each other distasteful for little current reason but this nonetheless prevents wide distribution of overt activities in hostile locations by those of the opposite species without aid of alteration magic. Fey can interbreed with humans making fey with little incentive to remain with the whole of either side but allowing spies in both directions and though this is an asset it can also be considered a potential risk. Both sides appear to consider the risk paramount to the utilization of this resource.

Physical weaponry is largely unknown but magic weaponry is presumed proficient due to mass destruction spells of high circle but also generally unknown. Nonetheless all fey seem to have at least a minimal proficiency in magic endeavors. Should the opportunity arise I will investigate the knowledge of fey weaponry that the humans possess through apparent knowledge banks in a thin unidentifiable magic item named peadeae that the ghost has learned usage of. Currently the ghost has read various human knowledge and some fey history from the peadeae though I attempted to gain access to intelligence information the ghost did not appear to have access to it.

The army of the fey is unknown as none have been observed but they are likely to employ magic as few conventional weapons were found at the capital. Fey are assumed to be proficient in warfare of some nature as they are reputed to have combated humans for an indeterminate length. Nonetheless it may be that summons or magic constructs are used for rank and file soldiers though this is speculation.

In cursory knowledge gleaned from a human leader the fey are reputed to have infrequent or slow breeding behavior of some type and their longevity is questionable. Extinction of the race from human pressure may be possible in the near future. It is unknown exactly how long the fey live but it is likely to be a fairly long duration. Despite the long life they are prone to making enemies of the humans rather than remaining unknown and this hastens their extinction. Their longevity is to be considered pending extinction due to self-destruction in committing unreasonably massive warfare.

Behavior of the fey as a society is often mistrusting of anything outside of their race. This may be a historical trend or a biological one due to pressure from the human. They are generally hostile to the humans though events in recent decades appears to have diminished their resolve in the face of their possible extinction. Plant based structures in sustainable societal consumption appear to be attributes of the society and pure-magic equipment is present that is further amplified by their nature habits. Structures blend into the environment and this may indicate an isolation behavior on the part of the society as a whole.

The fey are considered unusable due to their pending extinction and it is likely that they would not prove terribly useful due to life-based magic. Further, it is unknown if their knowledge can significantly add to my own or provide any further improvements in efficiency. Unconfirmed rumors of undead creatures built by fey seem to be a rare occurrence and they may have either an unwanted restraint in the application of force or a dislike of necromantic methods. Even if population rates were not unsustainable their apparent low breeding rate makes them unsuited to soldiering purposes or acquiring of raw materials for my duties. Blue magic could resolve this but it is deemed a waste of time and effort as allowing their extinction improves my options on that plane as well as strategic interest. The fey appear to have no innate preference against infliction of mass death of land in pursuit of power or mere emotional impulsiveness and this is generally concurrent with my interests. Their life preference may simply be cultural cover from some belief system or just the prevalence of societal self-sustaining methods that appear in common use.. Further investigation of the fey in the previous matter is prudent.

Clan MacBeathenne
=================

At the state manor where the ghost met this clan planar fabric fairly motile in the area. This may simply be do to foreign mechanics or heavy energy use on the plane producing interference. All listed coordinates are thus approximate. This nation state resides on the eastern continent and though it is not the primary seat of law in the society it is fairly large.

The following are planar coordinates for various relevant locations relative to current sphere bearer\'s lab.

-   Location of nexus known as Safe Haven:24638.48921, 34594.2536, 20323.31003, 31826.23425
-   Manor MacBeathenne:32343.1935, 5760.38806, 24168.29677, 41790.20453
-   Possible location of barracks:45372.39964, 37395.13579, 39728.19824, 37043.14667
-   Approximated planar location inside manor:39020.42179, 36371.4345, 36423.16170, 18444.16316
-   Site for new conjugate gate: 8342.13143, 24918.908, 22963.20749, 25351.18386

Though a state among a larger nation-state the clan nonetheless is prestigious and has a wide variety of reliable resources. The clan has a grasp of alchemical knowledge that I have yet to be exposed to resulting in mechanics and weaponry of unknown type that are extremely desirable and remain reliable compared to similar Lantan versions. Also present is an apparent high alchemy resulting in mass destruction weaponry that the ghost has had limited exposure to as yet. Some of the observed alchemical products appear to integrate some magical methods perhaps easily integrated into my existing knowledge. There is a drive for the persecution of sentient races that is a useful resource for manipulating the populous toward a desired end of an enemy. Such persecution of Fey may allow for little care for the acquiring of Fey bodies for reanimation. It is unknown if the Fey will be suitable for this purpose though it will vastly further my knowledge of them to participate in a vivisection. Leaders also exhibit this behavior making it possible to manipulate others in the sphere-bearer\'s favor should the need arise. Current leader is deemed perceptive and may prove resistant to habits not conducive to the efficiency of the whole as well as the unit while the whole remains manipulatable. Religious fervor has been observed in the populous though it may be isolated to a particular subset as the ghost was subject to a turn attempt by local clerics. This demonstrating a use or knowledge of turning though it is unknown if it was intentional. Nonetheless a deity influence was not observed and this may allow for the faith to be preempted by other means. It is prudent to investigate other religions and possible other deities further for propensity to irrational hostile actions. Druid groups may prove resistant to usurping of unattended religions but this can be dealt with covertly.

Mundane weaponry of extreme proficiency is present on all troops though they appear of varied skill levels. Nonetheless the study of acquired samples of long-rage alchemical weaponry may prove a welcome replacement for the crossbow. The sample was acquired from troops transporting the object then the mindless construct was pushed into a ravine as to not arise suspicion and tracks covered as the construct was too big to carry and I had very limited time in which to study its workings for adaption. Also present in the society\'s methods is mass destruction weaponry of an unknown type possibly related to high alchemy as it leaves little magical signature of its own only rotlight. Mobile constructs mentioned earlier of advanced construction are used for mundane transportation and possibly also used for warfare due to heavy construction of the ones I encountered while acquiriing samples of the \'LR-D105P Heavy Gauss Rifle\'. I will investigate the sample later for information and methods to integrate.

Troop status in general is unknown though manor troops are well armed and trained indicating a proficient use of troop resources by leadership. All primary weaponry carried by the troops is determined to be ranged high-energy. It is likely that minimal skill is required to operate weaponry at a base level as no apparent spell completion is required of the device. Troops wear nonmetallic armor of unknown quality but assumed to be superior to current nonmetallic nonmagical armors. Investigation is prudent for use in improved deadwraps.

Rulership of the clan is hereditary providing a stable base of operations in as much humans can be such for durations of longevity. The leader appears to and is reputed to not have overly common impulsive violent behavior and this should minimize uprisings by populous due to efficient care of the whole\'s resources. Though this assessment is circumspect given previous war it is likely true in present day for common activities as I have had long-term, direct, and close exposure to the current leader. Though the leader is likely to resemble the whole the populous habits are unknown but clan behavior is evident. Racially motivated behavior is apparent toward fey that should reduce their threat level as a whole within human borders. The ghost is currently constructing a conjugate gate using gained resources with little resistance to this fact should allow for the ease of construction toward the sphere-bearer\'s interest. Modifications have been made to the conjugate gate design that should minimize potential threat to a base of operations in the short-term that fey will remain a coherent threat.

The behavior of the whole in general seems to be erratic and a local developing religion is deemed hostile as the ghost was attacked by priests. Resources have been gained as a byproduct of the local religion\'s offensive maneuvers and force of local authority. Though the religion wields divine turning capabilities the threat level of this religion is currently deemed insignificant as no appreciable presence of a deity has as yet been detected. Societal relations appear important and this may allow for ease of mass manipulation of a populous that can be indoctrinated to obey and not ask questions in favor of the whole as determined by the one. Even so familial ties are strong and manipulation on some activities is unadvised. The ghost has been adopted by ruling clan and this familial tie is suitable to my needs as adoption has proven to exhibit genuine beneficial behavior toward the ghost which is also suitable to my needs. Most troops dedicated to combat appear to still be in a state of high alert though this may be due to continuing threat from fey populous.

Various factors have made the clan concurrent with my needs in serving the sphere-bearer. It is my determination that this group will be acquired as sphere-bearer to serve my standing edict that the sphere-bearer always be chosen based on concurrency with master Darkavien\'s needs. This assertion is made for the following reasons: the nature of devices and methods in use by the society is both foreign to my knowledge and common to my workings and I consider this worthy of an investigation of great priority; tightly knit behavior by the clan will provide excellent support for the sphere-bearer\'s needs, though the ghost\'s methods of obtaining reagents may be more appropriate instead of direct methods unless a new option can be developed, making the standing edict of construction of undead servitors much more efficient; exceedingly large population of humans on the planet for use in the sphere bearer\'s interests; there may be a pending war with the diminished fey that would provide this knowledge as well as fey knowledge as the Fey are unlikely to win given their limited numbers; measures to ensure that the conjugate gate in planning for repair, which diminishes the efficiency of fey mass destruction spells, will also protect my resources in the state manor; troops are regimented, though relatively voluntary large numbers of the soldiers appear to be stable, increasing the competence of the army; the society is determined likely to have no innate preference against infliction of death and mass destruction of land in pursuit of power which is concurrent with my needs; and preference to life-based endeavors may simply be cultural cover. Further investigation is not needed at this time, assumed to be normal human habits.
